L;Who stated for the first time the inertia principle which says that a body subjected to any external force remains motionless or in uniform motion in a straight line;Aristotle, the great Greek philosopher of antiquity, claimed that there could be no movement without force to provoke him. \n\nThis is Galileo who, by his experiments with marbles that roll on plans of different natures, has highlighted and formulated for the first time the principle of inertia. \n\nThis principle will be taken up and then formalized by Newton to become his first law of motion.;4;2;Aristotle;Galileo;Newton;Kepler;
L;At which periods of the lunar cycle do hign tides occur?;The tides are due to ocean attraction by the moon (mainly) and by the sun. \n\nHigh tides occur when the effects of these two attractions are added, either when the two stars are on the same side of the earth (new moon), or when they are on each side of it (full moon). \n\nOn the other hand, low tides occur if the sun is 90 degrees from the moon. \n\n During the 28-day lunar cycle, there are about two high tides and two low tides every month.;2;1;At the full moon and the new moon;In the first and last quarters of the moon;;;
L;There is a theoretical distance below which a satellite cannot turn around a planet without disintegrating. What is this limit name?;Edouard Roche, a French mathematician and astronomer, born in 1820, first determined this limit distance. \n\nBelow this limit the attraction forces of the planet would be greater than the gravity force that maintains the satellite cohesion which would cause its dislocation.;4;3;Kepler limit;Cassini limit;Roche limit;Newton limit;
L;Who first affirmed that the earth is not at the center of the universe but that it revolves around the sun?;According to the Greek astronomer Ptolemy, the sun and the planets rotate in a circular orbit around the immobile earth. \n\nCopernic will refute Ptolemy's theory by defending the heliocentric model which says that the earth and the other planets are revolving around the sun which is motionless. \n\nThe heliocentric model will then be defended by Galileo, and Kepler will determine that the orbits of the planets around the sun are not circular but elliptical.;4;2;Ptolemy;Copernicus;Galileo;Kepler;
L;In astonomy, according to the heliocentric model:;Since antiquity, the belief was that the sun and the planets revolve around the earth that is at the center of the universe. This is the geocentric model defended by Aristotle and Ptolemy. \n\nIn the 16th century, Copernicus refuted Ptolemy's theory by defending the heliocentric model which says that the earth and the other planets are revolving around the sun that is motionless.;2;2;The sun and the planets revolve around the still earth;The sun is still and the planets are revolving around him;;;
L;How often do solar eclipses occur (regardless of location)?;An eclipse of the sun occurs when the sun, the earth and the moon are lined up, with the moon in between. As the moon orbit around the earth is slightly inclined (about 5 degrees) with respect to the earth orbit around the sun, this event does not occur at each new moon. \n\nIn fact, we need the new moon but also that the moon and the sun are at the same time at the intersection of the ecliptic (Earth orbit) and lunar orbit planes. \n\nThis event takes place at least twice a year, but the eclipse is only visible at a specific point on earth, which is in the moon's shadow cone projected onto the earth, that is, a band about 20 km of land.;4;1;At least twice per year;About every 5 years;About every 10 years;About every 100 years;
L;A person is heavier at the equator than at the poles.;The earth, which rotates on itself, is not a Galilean frame of reference, it is a gigantic merry-go-round, which revolves around the geocentric reference which is Galilean.\n\nAny object on earth must therefore be submitted to inertia forces such as centrifugal force or Coriolis force. \n\nAt the equator the centrifugal force is directed upwards and is opposite to the weight and a person at the equator will be less heavy than at the poles. \n\nIt should be noted however that this centrifugal force is so weak that its action is negligible compared to the weight. So a 60kg person will weigh 200g less at the equator than at the poles.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;The Foucault pendulum was designed in 1851 by the French physicist Léon Foucault. What phenomenon was shown by this pendulum?;The earth, which rotates on itself, is not a Galilean frame of reference, it is a gigantic merry-go-round, which revolves around the geocentric reference which is Galilean.\n\nAny object on earth must therefore be submitted to inertia forces such as centrifugal force or Coriolis force.\n\nThe Foucault pendulum experiment, designed by the physicist Léon Foucault in 1851, showing that the pendulum oscillation plane rotates under the action of Coriolis force was a demonstration that earth rotates on itself.;4;3;Gravitation;Rotation of earth around the sun;Rotation of earth on itself;Earth's magnetic field;
L;Is winter duration seasons the same in northern hemisphere and in southern hemisphere?;Summer lasts longer in northern hemisphere than in southern hemisphere. \n\nSeasons are explained by the axis inclination of the Earth's poles with respect to its orbit. Thus the hottest season, summer, takes place for one hemisphere when the sun is leaning towards the sun while the other hemisphere is in winter. \n\nIndeed, when a hemisphere is leaning towards the sun, it is more illuminated and warmer because the sun's rays are more direct and arrive perpendicularly. \n\nThe earth orbit being an ellipse, summer occurs in northen hemisphere when earth is farthest from the sun and its speed is the lowest.\n\nBecause earth turns slower in summer in northern hemisphere than in winter, summer is longer than winter in this hemisphere. In southern hemisphere, it is the opposite and winter is longer than summer.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;The only way to decrease the entropy of a body is:;The body or system entropy is a measure of the state of its "disorder". \n\nThe only way to decrease its entropy is to take energy away from it by "negative heat "(that is, by heat transfers to the outside of the body). \n\nOnly heat leads to entropy exchanges: any other operation causes entropy creation.;2;2;To heat it;To cool it;;;
L;Body entropy characterizes its degree of disorder. According to the second principle of thermodynamics, an isolated body entropy:;Entropy of a body or system is a measure of the state of its "disorder". \n\nThe second principle of thermodynamics says: \n "In the absence of energy exchange with outside, entropy of a body ineluctably increases. It reaches its maximum when the equilibrium is reached ";4;2;Stay constant;Can only increase;Can only decrease;May increase or decrease;
L;What is the name of the solid to gaseous state transtion, without going through the liquid state?;The temperature of the liquid-gas transition depends on pressure, it increases as pressure increases. The reason is that gaseous state occupies more volume than liquid state and therefore more kinetic energy is needed to repel the ambient air when pressure is higher. \n\nBy contrast, the variation of volume between a solid and a liquid being rather low, pressure has very little influence in the melting temperature of a solid. \n\nThus in case of water, if the boiling temperature becomes less than 0 degrees ( melting temperature of ice), ice will go directly to the gaseous state without going through the liquid state. This phenomenon, called "sublimation" occurs as soon as the pressure becomes less than 6 mbar.;4;4;gasification;vaporization;boiling;sublimation;
L;Does the boiling temperature of water vary with air pressure?;The temperature of the liquid-gas transition depends on the pressure, it increases as pressure increases. The reason is that gaseous state occupies more volume than liquid state and therefore more kinetic energy is needed to repel the ambient air when pressure is higher. \n\nSo the boiling point of water is 100 degrees if the pressure is 1 bar (atmospheric pressure), but this temperature will be higher if the pressure is higher (in a pressure cooker for example) and lower if the pressure is lower (at the top of Mont Blanc for example).;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;The pressure of a moving fluid varies according to its flow velocity. How does this pressure vary;Bernoulli's principle relates the velocity and pressure of a fluid to a given point: According to this principle, the pressure of the fluid where its velocity is high is lower than the pressure of the fluid where its velocity is lower. \n\nLet us explain this principle by taking as an example the water circulating in a pipe having sections of different diameters. \n\nWater being an incompressible fluid, when it reaches a narrow portion of pipe, its speed increases in order to maintain its constant volume flow. If the speed of the water increases, its kinetic energy also increases. This increase of its kinetic energy is due to the work of the pressure forces which are exerted on both sides of the change of section of the pipe. As the speed of the water becomes higher in the narrow part of the pipeline, the pressure must be higher in the widest part, where the speed is the lowest, in order to cause its acceleration. \n\nFor our explanation we took the example of water but Bernouilli's principle is general and applies to all fluids, liquids and gases. \n\nThis Bernoulli's principle explains the wing lift phenomenon. The wing being profiled so that the air flows more rapidly above the wing than below, this difference in speed causes a pressure difference with a depression above the wing which is thus "sucked" upward.;2;2;Pressure increases with speed;Pressure decreases with speed;;;
L;Sound goes faster in the air than in a liquid or solid;The speed of sound in a body is the speed displacement of overpressure and depression zones caused by a vibrating object in contact with it. \n\nThe propagation of the forward pressure is due to the pressure forces which exert on the molecules, and push some of them forward. At each point, a depression zone follows the overpressure zone, which has moved forward. \n\nhe sound can propagate in a gas but also in a liquid or a solid. For a liquid or a solid, the molecules are "in contact" with each other, and therefore only a minimal displacement of a molecule will cause overpressure or depression. \n\nFinally, the major consequence is the higher speed of sound in a liquid or a solid than in a gas. For example, the sound propagates between four and five times faster in water than in the air and fifteen times faster in steel.;2;2;It is true;It's wrong;;;
L;During a storm, we are protected from lightning:;Lightning is an electrical discharge (called lightning) that occurs between the base of a thundercloud (called cumulonimbus) that is charged with electricity and the ground. \n\nIf lightning strikes a closed conductive and hollow object, as this object is conductive, the electric charge brought by the lightning will be distributed uniformly on all its surface. It can be shown that since the charges are evenly distributed, their electrical effects cancel out and the electrostatic field is zero inside the object. This forms what is called a "Faraday cage". A person inside the object would not feel any effect. Thus a car is a good way for protecting against lightning storms. \n\nOn the other hand, if the closed and hollow object is an insulator, the considerable electrical charge of the lightning will not be able to spread on its surface and will create a very intense electrostatic field inside. A person in this object would not be safe at all and would probably be struck down.;2;1;When taking refuge in a metal closed object;When taking refuge in a closed insulating object;;;
L;During a thunderstorm, lightning is attracted by sharp objects;During a thunderstorm, lightning is attracted by sharp objects. \n\ nLightening is an electrical discharge (called lightning) that occurs between the base of a storm cloud (called cumulonimbus) that is negatively charged and the ground. \n\nthe cloud was electrically charged due to the upward and downward movements of moisture-laden air (water vapor, water drops and ice crystals) as a result of the friction between the crystals ice cream and drops of water. The ice crystals charge positively while the drops of water are negatively charged. \n\nThe ice crystals, lighter, accumulate at the top of the cloud which is therefore positively charged while the drops of water s' accumulate at the bottom of the cloud which is charged negatively to it. \n\nIn a thunderstorm, in addition to lightning (lightning between the bottom of the cloud and the ground) there are also lightning inside the clouds ( between the positively charged top and the negatively charged bottom) as well as between the clouds themselves. \n\nMetal objects on the ground, under the influence of negative charges at the bottom of the cloud, are positively charged towards the cloud and negatively in the opposite direction. \n\nTherefore, a potential difference is created between the top of the metal object and the bottom of the cloud. This potential difference will ionize the air closer and closer between the top of the metal object and the bottom of the cloud. \n\nIf the metal object is high enough, ion networks starting from the metal object and those leaving the cloud can come together and cause an electric shock, ie a lightning bolt. \n\n If a metal object on the ground has a pointed high end, the electric field in the vicinity of this point is stronger, resulting in greater ionization of the air near the tip. This is called "rush effect". Thus, the more the metal object is pointed, the more it will tend to attract lightning.;2;1;It is true;It's wrong;;;
L;How can you increase the load of a transformer without increasing its voltage?;The current intensity delivered by a transformer depends on its the voltage and the current output will last longer as the load of the transformer will be greater. \n\nFor a given voltage, for increasing the curent duration it is necessary to increase its electric load. \n\nA way to obtain this result is to make the transformer armatures by two metal discs very close to each other . The proximity of the negatively charged disc makes it possible to reduce the potential of the positively charged disc and vice versa. Increasing the surface of the discs also achieves this goal.;2;2;By spacing its metal plates;By bringing closer its metal plates;;;
L;Where are the magnetic poles of the earth?;The same magnets poles repel each other while the different magnets poles attract each other. \n\nAs the compass needle (which is nothing but a small magnet) is always pointing north geographically, it can be concluded that the earth itself is a gigantic magnet and that its magnetic south pole is at the geographic north pole and its magnetic north pole is at the geographic south pole;2;1;Magnetic north nole is at the geographic south pole and magnetic south pole is at the geographic north pole;Magnetic north pole is at geographic north pole and magnetic south pole is at geographic south pole;;;
L;What are the names of materials that are not attracted by magnets?;Atoms that make up matter contain electrons that revolve around a nucleus. Each electron is equivalent to a small electrical turn and therefore behaves like a small magnet. \n\nWithout entering into too complicated explanations that are related to quantum physics, we can say that for some atoms, there are as many electrons rotating in one direction as in the other. The magnetic influence of electrons then neutralize two by two, and therefore no magnetic field can be created. A material of this type cannot be magnetized and is called "diamagnetic" material. \n\nCopper, zinc, silver, gold are examples of diamagnetic materials. \n\nMost of the materials are not diamagnetic and have atoms that create a magnetic field due to the rotation of the materials. electrons. On the other hand, the rotation planes of electrons being perfectly random, some atoms create a magnetic field in one direction, and others create a field directed in the opposite direction. In total, the magnetic contributions of all the atoms compensate each other, and the global magnetic field is null. \n\nBy contrast, if we place this material near a magnet, because of the magnetic force exerted by it, all the turns that constitute its atoms will rotate to end up in the same plane. This time, the magnetic fields created by each atom add up instead of offsetting each other and the overall magnetic field becomes nonzero. \n\nWhen the magnet is moved away, the incessant collisions between the atoms rapidly reorient the turns in all directions and the material loses its magnetization. \n\nMaterials that lose their magnetization as soon as the magnet is removed are called "paramagnetic" materials. \n\nAluminum, manganese, platinum are examples of paramagnetic materials. \n\nMaterials that retain their magnetization after the magnet is removed are called "ferromagnetic" materials. These materials also have the property of magnetizing more strongly than paramagnetic materials. \n\nIron, steel, cobalt, nickel are examples of paramagnetic materials.;2;2;paramagnetic materials;diamagnetic materials;;;
L;Polar auroras are illuminations caused by the penetration of solar winds into the atmosphere. These phenomena are only visible at the poles.;The earth is a gigantic magnet and therefore has a magnetic field, called magnetosphere. \n\nThis magnetosphere plays an important role as it protects the earth from charged particles emitted by the sun, called "solar wind". \n\nIn fact, when these particles approach the earth, they are deflected by its magnetic field and wrap around the field lines without reaching the earth. \n\nIf these particles cannot in any case cross the Earth's magnetic field, they can in certain cases reach the poles by following the field lines that converge there. \n\nBy striking the Earth's atmosphere at the poles, these particles "excite" the molecules of the atmosphere that emit light. \n\nThese are "polar auroras", with their pink or green drapes, which are only visible near the polar circle.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Who described the remote action of electric charges and established the law which says that electrostatic force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance separating the charges?;The French physicist Charles Augustin de Coulomb who, in a series of seven memoirs published from 1785 to 1791 on electricity and magnetism, established the law describing the electrostatic force exerted between two charged bodies. \n\nThis force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance separating these bodies. If the charges are of opposite signs the two bodies attract each other, otherwise they repel each other.;4;2;Lorentz;Coulomb;Faraday;Maxwell;
L;An electric charge moving in a magnetic field is subjected to a force that is proportional to its moving speed. What is the name of this magnetic force?;The magnetic force, called the Lorentz force, owes its name to the Dutch physicist Hendrik Antoon Lorentz, who distinguished himself for his work on electromagnetism. \n\nThis force is exerted by moving charges on moving charges. \n\n The moving electric charges (in a magnet the moving charges are the atoms electrons) creates a magnetic field that bathes the entire space. At each point in space the magnetic field intensity is related to the force that a moving charge would feel at that point. \n\nThe force that the magnetic field exerts on the moving charge is perpendicular to the magnetic field and to the charge movement direction and intensity is proportional to its speed.;4;1;Lorentz force;Coulomb force;Faraday force;Maxwell force;
L;Who established the electromagnetic induction law?;A closed conductor placed in a variable magnetic field creates a current in this conductor, called induced current. \n\nFaraday's law, named after the British physicist Michael Faraday, says that this current is proportional to the variation of magnetic flux passing through the conductor. \n\nThe induced current creates itself a magnetic field that opposes the variation of the magnetic flux that gives it birth.;4;3;Lorentz;Coulomb;Faraday;Newton;
L;At high frequency, the alternating current tends to circulate only on the surface of the conductors. This phenomenon, called the skin effect, is due to:;The skin effect is a phenomenon due to the electromagnetic induction which makes that, at a high frequency, the current tends to circulate only on the surface of the conductors. \n\nThe sinusoidal current creates a magnetic field which is also sinusoidal. \n\nWhen the current increases, the magnetic field also increases and this variation creates an induced current whose direction is such that it tends to thwart the increase of the current in the heart of the conductor, and to amplify it in periphery.\n\nThis phenomenon will be all the more important as the frequency of the current will be high. \n\nThe consequence is that the current using a smaller portion of the conductor at high frequencies, its resistance increases and losses Joule effect become very important.;2;2;the Joule effect;electromagnetic induction;;;
L;Which of these famous experiments has made it possible to highlight the wave nature of light?;Young's holes experiment, conducted by the British physicist Thomas Young in 1801, made it possible to highlight the wave nature of the light. \n\nThis experiment involves interfering two beams of light from the same source, passing them through two small slots in an opaque plane. On a screen placed in front of the slits, there is a diffraction pattern alternating dark and illuminated fringes which demonstrates the undulatory character of the light. \n\nFizeau's experiment, conducted by the French physicist Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849, obtained the first terrestrial measurement of the light speed. \n\nMichelson-Morley experiment, conducted by American physicists Albert Abraham Michelson and Edward Morley in 1887, showed that ether, a substance supposed to bathe all space and in which light propagates, does not exist.;4;3;Fizeau's experiment;Michelson-Morley experiment;Young's holes experiment;Stern and Gerlach experiment;
L;Which of these famous experiments has shown that ether, which is supposed to bathe all the space and in which light propagates, does not exist?;Michelson-Morley experiment, carried out by American physicists Albert Abraham Michelson and Edward Morley in 1887, showed that ether, substance supposed to bathe all the space and in which light propagates, does not exist. \n\nIn fact, this experiment has shown that the light speed between two perpendicular directions and at two periods spaced by 6 months is the same. This speed is therefore not influenced by  the earth movement with respect to the sun. \n\nThe interpretation of this result led physicists to question the existence of the ether (which was supposed to be the support material of an electromagnetic wave like light). \n\nFizeau's experiment, carried out by the French physicist Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849, obtained the first terrestrial measurement of the light speed. \ n \ nL Young's holes experiment, conducted by the British physicist Thomas Young in 1801, made it possible to highlight the wave nature of light.;4;2;Fizeau's experiment;Michelson-Morley experiment;Young's holes experiment;Stern and Gerlach experiment;
L;Which of these famous experiments made it possible to measure the light speed?;Fizeau's experiment, carried out by the French physicist Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849, made it possible to obtain the first terrestrial measurement of the light speed. \n\nThe principle of this experiment is to measure the time taken by light to make a round trip between two points whose distance is known. He used for this purpose an ingenious mechanical system of mirrors and rotating toothed wheel, the speed of the wheel being adjusted to let the light to go and block it at back after a reflection on a mirror. \n\nYoung's holes experiment, carried out by the British physicist Thomas Young in 1801, made it possible to highlight the wave nature of the light. \n\nMichelson-Morley experiment, conducted by American physicists Albert Abraham Michelson and Edward Morley in 1887, showed that ether, substance supposed to bathe all the space and in which the light propagates, does not exist.;4;1;Fizeau's experiment;Michelson-Morley experiment;Young's holes experiment;Stern and Gerlach experiment;
L;The blue color of the sky is due to:;The blue of the sky is the result of sunlight diffusion by the atmosphere. Witout atmosphere the sky would appear black. \n\nThe light emitted by the sun is a white light which is a combination of all the colors. \n\nWhen the light passes through the atmosphere and meets the gas molecules that compose it, it is diffused in all directions by these molecules. However, this diffusion is not the same for all the wavelengths, it is more important for the low wavelengths (blue) than for the larger ones (red). \n\nThus the sky appears blue because it is the dominant color among those which come from the molecules of the atmosphere and which propagate to our eyes.;4;3;the very cold temperature of the upper atmosphere;the high pressure of the atmosphere;the light diffused by the atmosphic molecules;the clouds;
L;What optical phenomenon can explain the magnification of objects immersed under water?;The light rays emitted by an immersed object are deflected as they pass through the surface of the water by the refraction phenomenon. \n\nThese rays pass water with a higher refractive index (n = 1.33 ) than that of air (n = 1). They move away from the orthogonal line to the surface, before reaching the eye. \n\nBecause of this deviation, each ray appears from a point closer to the surface of the water than the object point that actually emitted it. \n\nThe submerged object therefore seems larger.;4;3;Diffraction;Reflection;Refraction;Diffusion;
L;What is the name of the defect of vision of an eye which loses its capacity to accomodate?;Presbyopia appears when the eye loses its capacity to properly accommodate: this occurs especially with age, when the muscles of the eye begin to tire. \n\nThus, for an eye that was originally normal, a presbyopic sees well from afar and blurs closely, like a hyperopic But the physical reason is different: a presbyopic can be myopic at the same time, while a hyperopic cannot.;4;4;Myopia;Hyperopia;Astigmatism;Presbyopia;
L;Does the human body emit electromagnetic waves?;With a 37 degrees Celcius temperature, the human body emits electromagnetic waves but only in the infrared range. It does not emit in the visible range which corresponds to frequencies greater than the infrared. \n\nIn fact, at this temperature the human body atoms average energy is not enough for emiting photons in the visible range field. \n\nAs photon energy is proportional to its associated wave frequency, the human body atoms energy is enough for emiting photons in the infrared range but cannot emit photons in the visible range that have a higher frequency and therefore a higher energy.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Why does not the human body emit light?;The human body emits electromagnetic waves but only in the infrared domain. \n\nThe reason is that at its 37 degrees Celcius temperature, the human body atoms average energy is not enough for emiting photons in the visible or ultraviolet range. \n\nAs photon energy is proportional to its associated wave frequency, the human body atoms energy is enough for emiting photons in the infrared range but cannot emit photons in the visible or ultraviolet range that have a higher frequency and therefore a higher energy.;2;2;Because it does not emit electromagnetic waves;Because it is too cold to emit electromagnetic waves in the visible range;;;
L;Albert Einstein received the Physics Nobel Prize in 1921 for:;Albert Einstein received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921 for his explanation of the photoelectric effect that had been highlighted by Hertz in 1887. \n\nThe photoelectric effect is the emission of electrons by a metallic material when it is exposed to electromagnetic radiation. It has been found that electrons are only torn from the material if the incident radiation exceeds a frequency threshold. Below this threshold, no electron is torn off, even if the intensity of the radiation increases sharply. \n\nEinstein's interpretation of this phenomenon is that the emission and absorption of light by matter can only be in the form of "indivisible packages", called "quanta of light" or photons and whose energy is directly proportional to the wave frequency. \n\nIt is therefore necessary that the incident radiation exceeds this frequency threshold so that its photons have enough energy to be able to tear electrons out of the material.;4;1;His photoelectric effect explanation;His discovery of the wave nature of the electron;His special relativity theory;His general relativity theory;
L;Which physicist received the physics Nobel Prize in 1922 for his atom model?;The Danish physicist Niels Bohr received the physics Nobel Prize in 1922 for his atom model that explained the spectral lines of the gases when they are heated. \n\nFor explaining these spectral lines, Bohr took over and improved the planetary Rutherford atom model composed of a positively charged nucleus around which negatively charged electrons gravitate. \n\nIn Bohr's model, only some orbits are allowed, each corresponding to a different electron energy  (The further away the orbit is from the nucleus, the higher the energy of the electron.) \n\nA photon emission occurs when the electron loses energy, ie when it goes from an orbit to a lower orbit (closer to the nucleus) and the energy photon energy is equal to the energy difference between both orbits. \n\nAs only some orbits are allowed, only some very specific energies can be issued which i explains that only some wavelengths can be emitted. This explains the spectral lines observed for the gases, each line corresponding to a specific wavelength.;4;2;Rutherford;Bohr;Planck;Einstein;
L;Which of these famous experiments, carried out in 1927, confirmed De Broglie's hypothesis that electrons and photons can behave both as waves and as corpuscles?;By analogy with the photon, the French physicist Louis De Broglie hypothesized that the electron, like the photon, must behave both as a wave and a corpuscle. \n\nAccording to him, the electron is similar to a "cloud", it spreads like a wave occupying all space. On the other hand, as soon as we try to detect it, it reconcentrates itself instantaneously to a given point of the wave, with a probability given by the wave. \n\nDe Broglie theory was verified by the experiment carried out in 1927 by Davisson and Germer. By bombarding a nickel crystal with electrons, they observed diffraction patterns as De Broglie had predicted, which confirmed the wave nature of the electrons.;4;3;Fizeau's experiment;Michelson-Morley experiment;Davisson-Germer's experiment;Young's holes experiment;
L;What is the name of the quantum physics fundamental equation that describes the spatial and temporal evolution of the particle wave function.;By analogy with the photon, the French physicist Louis De Broglie hypothesized that the electron, like the photon, should behave both as wave and corpuscle. The wave can be interpreted as the particle presence probability. \n\nBy contrast, the Austrian physicist Erwin Schrödinger established the equation that bears his name and which describes the spatial and temporal evolution of the particle wave function. The square of this wave function corresponds to the particule presence probability.;4;2;Planck's equation;Schrodinger's equation;De Broglie's equation;Bohr's equation;
L;The tunnel effect is explained by:;The tunnel effect is a phenomenon that is explained by quantum physics. \n\nIt refers to the property that a particle has on the atomic scale (like an electron) to be able to cross a potential barrier even if its energy is lower to the minimum energy required to cross this barrier. \n\nIn fact, according to quantum physics, any particle is both a wave and a particle and the square of its wave function modulus corresponds to the particle presence probabiliy tdensity. \n\nWhen the particle reaches the barrier, the presence probability density of its wave function does not cancel out, but fades inside it . \n\nIf at the exit of the potential barrier, the particle has a non-zero presence probability, it can cross it. \n\nThis tunnel effect is used by devices that we use in everyday life: the smartphone flash memory or USB key are good examples.;4;4;Special relativity;General relativity;Nuclear physics;Quantum physics;
L;Which of these two experiments made it possible to show the corpuscular nature of light and thus its wave-particle duality?;Albert Einstein showed the corpuscular nature of light thanks to his photoelectric effect explanation in 1921. \n\nThe photoelectric effect is the emission of electrons by a metallic material when it is exposed to electromagnetic radiation. It has been found that electrons are only torn from the material if the incident radiation exceeds a specific frequency threshold. Below this threshold, no electron is torn off, even if the intensity of the radiation increases sharply. \n\nEinstein's interpretation of this phenomenon is that the emission and absorption of light by matter can only be in the form of "indivisible packages", called "quanta of light" or photons and whose energy is directly proportional to the wave frequency. \n\nIt is therefore necessary that the incident radiation exceeds a specific frequency so that its photons have enough energy to be able to tear electrons out of the material. \n\nThe wave nature of light had been highlighted by the Young's holes experiment carried out by Young in 1802. \n\nLight is both an undulatory phenomenon, hence the concept of wavelength, and a corpuscle phenomenon, as evidenced by the photons.This is the wave-particle duality of light.;2;1;The photoelectric effect;The Young's holes experiment;;;
L;In an atom, what are the valence electrons?;The valence electrons are the farthest electrons from the atom nucleus. They are the electrons least bound to the atom nucleus which play a role in the chemical reactions. \n\nThe table, called "periodic classification of the elements", makes it possible to easily locate the valence electrons atoms number. In this table, all the atoms of the same column have the same number of valence electrons and have similar chemical properties.;2;2;the closest electrons to the atom nucleus;The farthest electrons from the atom nucleus;;;
L;In an atom, how many electrons can the first electronic layer contain?;In an atom, the first electronic layer, denoted n = 1, is the closest to the nucleus and can have a maximum of 2 electrons. \n\n This layer has a spherical-shaped type "s" orbital. \n\n As an atomic orbital can hold 2 electrons, this first layer can have a maximum of 2 electrons.;4;1;Two;Eight;Eighteen;Thirty two;
L;In an atom, how many electrons can the second electron layer contain?;In an atom, the second electronic layer, denoted n = 2, may have a maximum of 8 electrons. \n\n This layer has one spherical-shaped type "s" orbital and three dumbbells-shaped type "p" orbitals .\n\nAs each atomic orbital can hold 2 electrons, this second layer can have a maximum of 8 electrons.;4;2;Two;Eight;Eighteen;Thirty two;
L;In an atom, how many electrons can the third electronic layer contain?;In an atom, the third electronic layer, denoted n = 3, can have a maximum of 18 electrons. \n\nThis layer has one spherical-shaped type "s" orbital, three dumbbells-shaped type "p" orbitals and five type "d" orbitals. \n\nAs each atomic orbital can contain 2 electrons, this third layer can have a maximum of 18 electrons.;4;3;Two;Eight;Eighteen;Thirty two;
L;In an atom, how many electrons can the fourth electronic layer contain?;In an atom, the fourth electronic layer, denoted n = 4, may have a maximum of 32 electrons. \n\nThis layer has one spherical-shaped type "s" orbital, three dumbbells-shaped type "p" orbitals, five type "d" orbitals and seven type "f" orbitals. \n\nAs each atomic orbital can contain 2 electrons, this fourth layer can have a maximum of 32 electrons;4;4;Two;Eight;Eighteen;Thirty two;
L;In chemistry, what is the element atomic number?;The atomic number (denoted Z) of an element is equal to the number of protons in the nucleus. \n\nFor example, the atomic number of the carbon is equal to 12, which means that its nucleus contains 12 protons. \n\nThe nucleus of an element also contains other particles called neutrons. Protons are positively charged while neutrons are electrically neutral. \n\nAn element is defined by its atomic number, that is by its number of protons. The atoms of the same element that differ in their number of neutrons are called isotopes. \n\nWhen the atom is neutral, its number of electrons (negatively charged) is equal to its number of protons (positively charged).;4;1;Its number of protons;Its number of neutrons;Its number of electrons;Its number of protons + neutrons;
L;In chemistry, isotopes are the atoms of the same element that differ in the number of:;An element is defined by its atomic number (denoted by Z), that is, by the number of protons contained in its nucleus. \n\nThe nucleus of an element also contains other particles called neutrons. \n\n The atoms of the same element which differ in their number of neutrons are called isotopes. For example, hydrogen of atomic number 1, that is to say having a proton, has 3 isotopes: the protium which does not have a neutron, the deuterium which has 1 neutron and the tritium which has 2 neutons.;2;2;Protons;Neutrons;;;
L;In a liquid flowing in a horizontal pipe, if the section of the pipe decreases, the flow velocity of the liquid increases. But what about the pressure?;In a fluid flowing horizontally, the pressure of the fluid at points where its velocity is high, is lower than the pressure of the fluid at points where its speed is lower: This is the Bernoulli principle. \n\nThis principle which may seem counterintuitive can be explained in the following way: \n\nWhen the water reaches a narrower part of the pipe, it must accelerate to maintain the volume flow. As the water accelerates, the work done by the pressure force just before the section reduction of the pipe must be greater than the work provided by the pressure force in the narrower part. \n\nThis therefore imposes that the pressure on the side the widest of the pipe is higher than the narrow side pressure. \n\nAn application of the Bernoulli principle is given by the lift of the airplane wings. The wings of the airplane are profiled so that the air flows faster above the wing than below. This creates a pressure difference between the top and bottom of the wing that produces a depression above the wing. This depression sucks the wing up and allows the plane to fly.;2;2;It increases;It decreases;;;
L;Two liquids can mix (are miscible):;If the molecules of the two liquids are of the same type (polar or apolar) they are miscible, otherwise they are not miscible. \n\nThe chemical bonds between polar molecules are of dipole-dipole type, the bonds between apolar molecules are of type forces of London, and the bonds between polar and apolar molecules are also London-type bonds. \n\nIf the two liquids are of polar type, their molecules stick together thanks to dipole-dipole bonds, so they can mix and are therefore miscible. \n\nIf the two liquids are apolar type, their molecules stick to each other thanks to the London forces, so they can mix and are therefore miscible. \n\nIf one of the liquids is polar (liquid A) and the other apolar (liquid B), as the dipole-dipole links are much stronger than the London forces, the polar molecules of the liquid A remain stuck to each other and do not stick the apolar molecules of the liquid B. On the other hand, the apolar molecules of the liquid B stick to each other thanks to the London forces. So the two polar and apolar liquids do not mix. \n\nThis is why ethanol (polar) can mix with water (polar), while oil (apolar) does not mix with water.;2;2;when they have the same density;When their molecules are of the same type: polar or apolar;;;
L;To increase the speed of a chemical reaction, you must:;To increase the speed of a chemical reaction, the temperature must be increased. \n\nBy increasing the temperature, the average speed of the molecules is increased and their collisions become more frequent. But it is during collisions, when the molecules approach each other, that the reaction occurs. \n\nThis is the reason for being the refrigerator: by decreasing the temperature, it slows the chemicals reactions that allow bacteria to grow on food.;2;1;increase the temperature;decrease the temperature;;;
L;What thermodynamic state variable characterizes the amount of heat produced or absorbed by a chemical reaction?;In a chemical reaction, enthalpy variation between the reaction products and the reactants is equal to the amount of heat produced or absorbed by this reaction. \n\nIf the enthalpy decreases, heat is produced by the reaction and the reaction is exothermic. \n\nIf enthalpy increases, heat is absorbed by the reaction and the reaction is endothermic.;2;1;Enthalpy;Entropy;;;
L;How does one describe a chemical reaction that produces heat?;A chemical reaction that produces heat is called exothermic. It is called endothermic if it absorbs heat. \n\nEach molecule has a "microscopic potential energy" due to the electrostatic forces acting between the charges. \n\nIf the potential energy of the molecules decreases during the chemical reaction, their kinetic energy increases and therefore the temperature increases. The chemical reaction then produces heat and is said to be exothermic.;2;2;Endothermic;Exothermic;;;
L;A chemical entity capable of capturing one or more electrons is:;An oxidant is a chemical entity (atom, ion, molecule) that is able to capture one or more electrons.\n\nA reducer is a chemical entity (atom, ion, molecule) that can give a or more electrons. \n\nAn oxidoreduction is a chemical reaction in which a reducer transfers one or more electrons to an oxidant. \n\nOxidoreduction reactions are a large chemical reactions family, since they are involved in combustions, corrosion of metals, electrochemistry or cellular respiration.;2;1;An oxidant;A reducer;;;
L;A chemical entity capable of giving electrons is:;A reducter is a chemical entity (atom, ion, molecule) that can give one or more electrons.\n\nAn oxidant is a chemical entity (atom, ion, molecule) that is capable of capturing a or more electrons.\n\nAn oxidoreduction is a chemical reaction in which a reducer transfers one or more electrons to an oxidant. \n\nOxidoreduction reactions are a large chemical reactions family, since they are involved in combustions, corrosion of metals, electrochemistry or cellular respiration.;2;2;An oxidant;A reducer;;;
L;Pure water is a perfect insulator;Pure water is not a perfect insulator because it always contains positive and negative ions in very small quantities due to proton transfers between water molecules, it is the water autoprotolysis reaction. This conductivity of pure water is, however, very very low. Tap water or fresh water found in nature contains dissolved minerals in the form of ions and is therefore very slightly conductive, much more than pure water.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;The pH (hydrogen potential) of an acidic aqueous solution is:;The pH (hydrogen potential) of an acidic aqueous solution is less than 7. \n\nThe pH characterizes the solution concentration of [H3O+] ions (hydronium ions), it is defined by: pH = -log [H3O +]. \n\nThe pure water contains a non-zero concentration of H3O+ ions and its pH is equal to 7. \n\nThe dissolution of an acid increases the amount of [H3O+] ions present in the water. The concentration of [H3O+] ions becomes greater than that corresponding to pure water and the pH of the solution is then less than 7.;2;1;Less than 7;Greater than 7;;;
L;The pH (hydrogen potential) of a basic aqueous solution is:;The pH (hydrogen potential) of a basic aqueous solution is greater than 7. \n\nThe pH characterizes the solution concentration of [H3O+] ions (hydronium ions) , it is defined by: pH = -log [H3O +]. \n\nThe pure water contains a non-zero concentration of [H3O+] ions and its pH is equal to 7. \n\nThe dissolution of a base increases the amount of [OH-] ions (hydroxide ions) and decreases that of the [H3O+] ions present in water. The concentration of [H3O+] ions becomes lower than that corresponding to pure water and the pH of the solution is then greater than 7.;2;2;Less than 7;Greater than 7;;;
L;A chemical entity that can release one or more protons (H+) is:;An acid is a chemical entity (molecule, ion) that can release one or more protons (H+). \n\nAt the opposite, a base is a chemical entity (molecule, ion) that can capture one or more protons. \n\nAn acid-base reaction is a chemical reaction in which there is a proton transfer from an acid to a base.;2;1;an acid;a base;;;
L;A chemical entity that can capture one or more protons (H+) is:;A base is a chemical entity (molecule, ion) that can capture one or more protons (H+). \n\nAt the opposite, an acid is a chemical entity (molecule, ion) that can release one or more protons. \n\nAn acid-base reaction is a chemical reaction in which there is a proton transfer from an acid to a base.;2;2;an acid;a base;;;
L;The genetic information of an individual has been transmitted equally by his father and mother;The genetic information contained in the mitochondria DNA of an individual comes only from the mother. \n\nMitochondria are small organelles present in the cytoplasm of cells that also contain DNA, different from that of the nucleus.  \n\nDNA carriers, mitochondria can transmit their information during cell division. But during fertilization, unlike the DNA of the nucleus, bequeathed by both parents, the mitochondrial DNA comes only from the mother, the spermatozoa do not transmit their cytoplasm, hence the word maternal inheritance.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of the family of living organisms whose cells do not have nuclei?;Prokaryotes, like bacteria, are unicellular organisms that do not have nuclei. Prokaryotes have their DNA in the cytoplasm of the cell. \n\nEukaryotes are uni or multicellular organisms whose cells have a nucleus. The nucleus is a separate compartment from the rest of the cellular content containing the DNA.;2;1;Prokaryotes;Eukaryotes;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of the family of living organisms whose cells possess a nuclei;Eukaryotes are uni or multicellular organisms whose cells have a nucleus. The nucleus is a separate compartment from the rest of the cellular content containing the DNA. \n\nProkaryotes, like bacteria, are unicellular organisms that do not have nuclei. Prokaryotes have their DNA in the cytoplasm of the cell.;2;2;Prokaryotes;Eukaryotes;;;
L;Are mushrooms plants?;The chamignon is neither a plant nor an animal: it forms a specific group which is called the fungal group. The mushroom is indeed not quite a plant for the following reasons: \n\n1. It has no roots but develops from a group of filaments, the mycelium. \n\n2. Like animals, fungi use organic matter from the soil to make their own organic material. Plants, on the other hand, are able to synthesize their organic constituents from mineral materials. This processus is called photosynthesis.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;Are viruses cells?;Unlike bacteria, viruses are not cells. They are smaller than bacteria and can only reproduce in a host cell (bacterium or animal cell) that they parasitize. \n\nThey contain proteins and nucleic acids and form a specific microorganisms grouping.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;Among the fats forming the lipids family, there are saturated fatty acids and unsaturated fatty acids. Which of these 2 types of fatty acids should not be consumed in excess?;Consumed in reasonable amounts, saturated fatty acids are good for the body. Indeed, they provide a lot of energy and also provide vitamins A, D, E and L. By contrast, consumeded in excess, saturated fatty acids promote weight gain and increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. \n\nAmong the main sources of saturated fatty acids are butter, sausages, fatty meats and cheeses. Unsaturated fatty acids have many important functions in the body. They play a role in hormonal synthesis and fight high blood pressure. Essential fatty acids (omega-3 and omega-6) are an important category of unsaturated fatty acids because they cannot be synthesized by the body. \n\nThe main dietary sources of unsaturated fatty acids are vegetable oils, meat, oily fish and eggs.;2;1;saturated fatty acids;unsaturated fatty acids;;;
L;Which of these famous experiments has highlighted the existence of the spin of the electron?;Stern and Gerlach experiment, carried out in February 1922, highlighted the existence of the spin of electron. \n\nBy sending silver atoms in a vertical magnetic field, the experiment has shown that half of the silver atoms are deflected upwards, and the other half downwards. \n\nSince the kinetic orbital momentum of the electrons cannot explain the observed deviation, the electrons must necessarily have an intrinsic kinetic moment, called spin, and behave themselves like tiny magnets whose half has a north pole directed upwards and the other half a north pole pointing downwards. \n\nThe spin is an intrinsic property of the electron, just like mass or electric charge. It is a quantum property that has no equivalent in classical mechanics that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, that is to say to a rotation of the electron on itself. This intrinsic kinetic moment brings imply the existence of an intrinsic magnetic moment for the electron which behaves like a tiny magnet. \ n\nThe spin of the electron is quantized and can only take the following 2 values: +1/2 or -1/2;4;4;Fizeau's experiment;Michelson-Morley experiment;Young's holes experiment;Stern and Gerlach experiment;
L;Can an object heavier than water float?;Surface tension on the water surface can allow an object denser than water to float. \n\nThis surface tension on the water surface is due to the attraction forces between the molecules water. \n\nwhen a light object but denser than water (metal needle for example) is placed gently on the water surface, it creates a slight hollow where the object will be located . The resultant attraction forces between the water molecules inside the hollow are directed upwards and can compensate for the weight of the object that will then float. \n\nBut of course, if you push the object slightly under the water surface, it will sink because it is heavier than water.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;By capillarity, a liquid will always tend to climb along a very thin glass tube.;The liquid will tend to go up or down along the tube, depending on whether it is wetting or not wetting when in contact with the glass. \n\nIf the liquid is wetting (water case), the liquid surface at the top of the tube forms a concave meniscus and the level of the liquid in the tube rises above the level of the free surface of the container. The capillary rise is due to the superficial forces applied at every point of the meniscus contour and the resultant of these forces balances the weight of the raised liquid. \n\nIf the liquid is non-wetting (mercury case), the liquid surface at the top of the tube forms a concave meniscus and the level of the liquid in the tube falls below the level of the free surface of the container. The surface tension forces pull the liquid down and the resultant of these forces balances the weight of the missing liquid.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Glass lets infrared rays light through.;The glass is transparent, so it lets the rays of visible light through, but it blocks the infrared rays (and also the ultraviolet rays). \n\nThis explains "the greenhouse effect": the sunlight manages to penetrate inside the greenhouse, but the infrared radiation of the objects inside cannot escape. The inside of a car, for example, starts to heat up strongly.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Glass lets ultraviolet rays light through;The glass is transparent, so it lets the rays of visible light through, but it blocks ultraviolet rays (and also infrared rays). \n\nThis explains why you cannot tan through a window.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Which scientist made the first observations of cells in a living tissue?;The English scientist Robert Hooke made the first observation in 1665 of a plant cell using a rudimentary microscope. He noticed in fine sections of cork, then in other plants, some structures similar to "hexagonal cells in a honeycomb". In his book Micrographia (1665), he named "cells" these smallest structural units of life. \n\nIn 1839, the German botanist Mattias Schleiden and the German zoologist Theodor Schwann established the cellular theory, according to which all organisms, whether simple bacteria or complex organisms like plants or animals, are made of cells.;4;1;Rober Hooke;Antony Van Leeuwenhoeck;Matthias Schleiden;Theodor Schwann;
L;The characteristic of an inorganic (or mineral) molecule is that it does not contain both carbon and hydrogen;An inorganic (or mineral) molecule does not contain both carbon and hydrogen. For example, the water molecule is inorganic, it contains hydrogen but no carbon. Another example is the carbon dioxide molecule that contains carbon but not hydrogen. An inorganic molecule is not a source of energy for our organism. \n\n An organic molecule is usually developed by living beings. It is composed of carbon C and hydrogen H and also sometimes of other elements such as oxygen O, nitrogen N or phosphorus P. An organic molecule is a source of energy for our body. \n\nThe four main classes of organic molecules are carbohydrates (or sugars), lipids (or fats), proteins and nucleic acids.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;The human body contains 65% water. Which of these 4 organs contains the most water?;Water is the most abundant mineral of living matter. It represents 60 to 80% of the volume of most living cells. \n\nThe water content of our various organs is as follows: \nkidneys: 81% \nheart: 79% \nblood: 79% \nbrain: 78 \nlungs: 78% \nstomach: 75% \nintestinel: 75% \nmuscle: 75% \nskin: 70% \nbone: 22,5%;4;3;The brain;The heart;Kidneys;Lungs;
L;What is the male organ of flowering plants?;The male organ in flowering plants is stamen. Its female organ is the pistil. \n\nThe stamens contain the pollen grains (tiny grains containing the male cells). The pistil is surmounted by a part that will receive the pollen. It contains one or more ovules. \n\nThe pollen grains are deposited by the wind or insects (eg bees) on the pistil, it is pollination. \n\nThe pollen grains introduced into the pistil fertilize the ovule. The base of the pistil (ovary) is then transformed into fruit while the ovule is transformed into seed. \n\nFlowering plants can be male genus (they have stamens but no pistil), female genus (they have a pistil but no stamens) or hermaphrodites (they have both a pistil and stamens).;2;2;Pistil;Stamen;;;
L;What is the female organ of flowering plants?;The female organ in flowering plants is the pistil. Its male organ is stamen. \n\nThe stamens contain the pollen grains (tiny grains containing the male cells). The pistil is surmounted by a part that will receive the pollen. It contains one or more ovules. \n\nThe pollen grains are deposited by the wind or insects (eg bees) on the pistil, it is pollination. \n\nThe pollen grains introduced into the pistil fertilize the ovule. The base of the pistil (ovary) is then transformed into fruit while the ovule is transformed into seed. \n\nFlowering plants can be male genus (they have stamens but no pistil), female genus (they have a pistil but no stamens) or hermaphrodites (they have both a pistil and stamens).;2;1;Pistil;Stamen;;;
L;Cholesterol is transported in the blood as LDL and HDL particles. Which of these 2 types of particles is called "bad cholesterol"?;Cholesterol is a lipid of the steroids family that is very important for our body: It is a component of cell membranes, it participates in the synthesis of steroid hormones such as sex hormones (testosterone, progesterone) and adrenal hormones (cortisone ) and also participates in the production of bile salts for lipid digestion. \n\nA small part of cholesterol comes from our diet, but most of it is produced by the liver. \n\nAs cholesterol is a non-soluble lipid in the water, it is transported in the blood in the form of "lipoproteins" which are spherical structures composed of lipids (including cholesterol) and proteins: These are LDL lipoproteins (having more lipids than proteins) and HDL lipoproteins (having more protein than lipids). \n\nLDL lipoproteins carry cholesterol from the liver to other cells of the body. LDL lipoproteins may at the same time "deposit" cholesterol, which will accumulate in the arteries. Knowing that excess cholesterol in the blood is a cardiovascular risk factor, LDL lipoproteins are referred to as "bad cholesterol". \n\nHDL lipoproteins carry cholesterol from the cells to the liver. They do not "deposit" cholesterol in the arteries, but "recover" cholesterol excess to bring back it to the liver which eliminates it. HDL lipoproteins are called "good cholesterol".;2;2;HDL;LDL;;;
L;In terms of their chemical composition, the proteins are:;Proteins are macromolecules consisting of a chain of amino acids, so they are amino acid polymers. There are 20 different amino acids, and because of this combination of amino acids, there is a large variety different proteins. Examples of amino acids: glycine, aspartic acid, lysine, cysteine. \n\nSome amino acids will create links between them, which will lead to the folding of the protein chain and forming a 3-dimensional structure. The number and storage order of amino acids determines the final shape of the molecule as well as its properties. \n\nProteins are the main building material of the body. They also have a functional role, they allow the cells to function. Some proteins have enzyme function, others have hormone or antibodies function\n\nFood sources of proteins are meat, poultry, fish, eggs, cheese, milk , cereals and legumes.;2;1;Polymers of amino acids;Polymers of nucleotides;;;
L;In terms of their chemical composition, the DNA molecules are:;DNA is the largest molecule of living organisms, it is a macromolecule consisting of a sequence of nucleotides, so it is a polymer of nucleotides. \n\nEach nucleotide is composed of a pentose sugar, a phosphate group and a nitrogen base among the 3 types A (adenine), G (guanime), C (cytosine) and T (thymine). The bases A and G are said to be complementary to the bases C and T because they will associate in the DNA molecule. \n\nThe DNA is a double-stranded macromolecule, that is to say formed by 2 nucleotide bonds. Within the same chain, the nucleotides are linked together by covalent bonds between a pentose sugar and a phosphate group. \n\nThe 2 polynucleotide chains are furthermore linked by chemical bonds between the complementary nitrogenous bases, that is to say a base A or G to a base C or T. \n\nDNA has a double helix shape, a kind of ladder. The phosphates and sugars form the vertical bars of the ladder while the nitrogenous bases form the rungs. \n\nDNA molecules are located in the cells nucleus, where they form the genetic material, that is to say , the genes located on chromosomes. DNA is an informative molecule whose nitrogenous base sequence represents genetic information.;2;2;Polymers of amino acids;Polymers of nucleotides;;;
L;In molecular biochemistry, what is catabolism?;Catabolism is the set of intracellular processes where organic species are degraded into simpler species. \n\nThe opposite is anabolism which is the set of intracellular processes where complex organic species are synthesized from simple organic species.;2;1;Degradation of complex organic species into simple organic species;Synthesis of complex organic species from simple organic species;;;
L;In molecular biochemistry, what is called anabolism?;Anabolism is the set of intracellular processes where organic species are synthesized from simple organic species. \n\nThe opposite is catabolism which  is the set of intracellular processes in which organic species are degraded. in simpler species.;2;2;Degradation of complex organic species into simple organic species;Synthesis of complex organic species from simple organic species;;;
L;In which part of the cell is cellular respiration taking place?;Mitochondria are the location of cellular respiration that provides cells with the energy they need to function. \n\nCarbohydrates, amino acids and fatty acids from our diet undergo a series of oxidation reactions that produce carbon dioxide and release energy. \n\nThe energy released by this nutrients degradation is used to synthesize ATP molecules that store this energy and can restore it according to the cell needs.;4;3;The nucleus;The plasma membrane;Mitochondria;The Golgi apparatus;
L;DNA, the genetic program of living organisms, is located entirely in the cells nucleus;Most of DNA is in the cells nuclei, but there is also DNA in the mitochondria for animal cells and in chloroplasts for plant cells. \n\nIn animal cells, mitochondria are the organelles of cellular respiration, this process is oxygen consuming and provides the energy needed by cells. \n\nIn plant cells, chloroplasts are the location of photosynthesis, this process uses light energy and dioxide of carbon from the air to synthesize the organic materials used by the cell.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Which cell in our body does not have a nucleus?;All cells in our body have a nucleus except the red blood cells. \n\nWithout nucleus, red blood cells cannot synthesize any protein and have a limited lifespan (120 days). \n\nSome cells, on the other hand, have several nuclei, such as skeletal muscle cells and osteoclasts.;2;1;The red blood cell;The white blood cell;;;
L;The sun appears yellow in the sky while the emitted light is white. Why?;The yellow color of the sun is due to the diffusion of solar radiation by the atmosphere. \n\nThe light emitted by the sun is a white light which is a combination of all colors, that is to say of all wavelengths that make up these different colors. \n\nWhen solar radiation goes through the atmosphere and hit the gas molecules that compose it, it is diffused in all directions by these molecules. But this diffusion is not the same for all the wavelengths, it is more important for the low wavelengths (blue) than for the larger ones (red). \n\nThus when we look at the sun, as it is the blue radiation which is mainly diffused in all the directions, a small part of this radiation reaches our eye, which explains why the sun appears yellow and not white. \n\nThe same diffusion phenomenon of light by the atmosphere also explains that the sky appears blue.;2;1;Because the different colors are not diffused equally by the atmosphere;Because solar radiation is absorbed by clouds;;;
L;Why is the setting sun red?;The setting sun is red because only the red radiation can go through the thick layer of atmosphere without being diffused. \n\nThe light emitted by the sun is a white light that is a combination of all the colors, that is to say of all the wavelengths that make up these different colors. \n\nWhen solar radiation goes through the atmosphere and hit the gas molecules that compose it, it is diffused in all directions by these molecules. But this diffusion is not the same for all wavelengths, it is more important for low wavelengths than for larger ones. Red is less diffused than green, which is itself less diffused than blue. \n\nSo at sunset, sunlight must go through a very thick layer of air, and blue, green, yellow colors will be highly diffused compared to red. Because a small part of these colors reaches our eye, the sun appears red.;2;1;Because only the red radiation can go through the thick layer of atmosphere without being diffused;Because at night, our eye perceives the red color better than the other colors;;;
L;Which physicist pronounced this sentence: "God does not play dice"?;Albert Einstein pronounced this sentence at the Solvay Congress in1927. In this sentence, "God does not play dice", Einstein is marking his opposition to the probabilistic interpretation of quantum physics and Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. To which Niels Bohr would have replied: "Who are you Albert Einstein to tell God what to do?"!\n\n Einstein, who was not a believer, used the word "God" to talk about the laws of nature.;4;2;Newton;Einstein;Bohr;de Broglie;
L ;The "Big Bang" theory provides an explanation of the Universe origin;The "Big Bang" theory does not provide an explanation of the Universe origin. \n\nIt describes the Universe evolution after the Planck wall which is a symbolic wall beyond which scientists have no knowledge because the physics tools are unusable beyond this limit. \n\nThis limit of the Planck wall dates back to 14 billion years ago and at that time our Universe was condensed into a tiny volume at a huge temperature and was going to start its expansion to give birth to atoms and then to galaxies, stars and planets. \n\nWhat happened before the Planck wall, no one knows it and it remains an enigma to this day.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Why do the protons, all positively charged, remain stuck together in the atoms nuclei instead of repelling each other?;The protons are linked together inside the atoms nuclei thanks to an attraction force called "the strong interaction". \n\nIt cannot be the gravitational force because on this atomic scale this force is extremely weak compared to the electrostatic force. \n\nThe strong interaction is in fact a force which is exerted between the quarks which are the elementary particles that make up the nucleons, that is to say the protons and the neutrons.;2;2;Because it is the gravitational force that maintains their cohesion;Because there is another force that maintains their cohesion;;;
L;During cell division by mitosis:;During the cell cycle, the chromatin fiber (DNA molecule associated with proteins) of each chromosome is duplicated into two genetically identical sister chromatids and remaining linked with each other at the centromere. \n\nAt the beginning of cell division, the two sister chromatids separate and move towards the two poles of the cell. The genetic material is thus distributed in two identical batches. \n\nDuring cell division, two daughter nuclei are formed, each containing one of the two batches of chromatids, and then the mother cell separates into two daughter cells having each one has its own nucleus. \n\nThe cell cycle thus allows a conformal reproduction of the cells: a mother cell gives 2 daughter cells containing exactly the same genetic information as the mother cell.;2;1;There is duplication of the chromosomes and each of the two daughter cells receives a perfectly identical copy of all the chromosomes of the mother cell;Each of the two daughter cells receives one half of the chromosomes of the mother cell;;;
L;All cells in the human body contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes.;Sexual cells or gametes contain only one member of each pair of chromosomes, so they contain only 23 chromosomes in humans instead of 46 for other cells. \n\nThe sex cells are the spermatozoa in men and oocytes in women and are formed in the reproductive organs (testes in men and ovaries in women). \n\nAll other cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Each pair of homologous chromosomes consists of a chromosome of paternal origin (brought by the male gamete) and a chromosome of maternal origin (brought by the female gamete). \n\nThe sexual cells are formed  by cell division called meiosis. \n\nThe other cells are formed by cell division called mitosis.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;What is the cell division mechanism used for the sexual cells formation by reproductive organs?;Sexual cells or gametes are formed by cell division called meiosis. \n\nMeiosis is a particular type of cell division that generates haploid cells (cells with only one member of each pair of homologous chromosomes) from diploid cells (cells having homologous chromosome pairs). \n\nThe meiosis dissociates the homologous chromosomes from each pair of the diploid mother cell, it performs two successive divisions and produces 4 haploid daughter cells (4 gametes). \n\n The fertilization, union of a spermatozoon (male gamete) and an oocyte (female gamete) makes it possible to reconstitute the pairs of homologous chromosomes, with one chromosome brought by the male gamete and the other brought by the female gamete. \n\nMitosis is the type of cell division that allows obtaining 2 identical daughter cells from a mother cell. It is this type of cell division that allows living organisms to grow and regenerate.;2;1;Meiosis;Mitosis;;;
L;What is the cell division mechanism used for obtaining two identical daughter cells from a mother cell?;The cell division mechanism used for obtaining two identical daughter cells from a mother cell  is mitosis. \n\nMitosis allows a conformal reproduction of cells: a mother cell gives 2 daughter cells having the same genetic information as the mother cell. \n\nThis type of cell division allows living organisms to grow and regenerate.;2;2;Meiosis;Mitosis;;;
L;Inside the cells, the proteins are synthesized by:;Ribosomes are organelles present in the cytosol of cells, they are the location of protein synthesis. \n\nRibosomes allow the translation of messenger RNA molecules into proteins. The messenger RNA molecule is a duplication of a portion of DNA (a gene) which is created inside the nucleus and carries the instructuctions for the synthesis of a specific protein. \n\nProteins synthetized by ribosomes have two possible uses: they can be used directly internally by the cell, or they can be exported outside the cell such as, for example, hormones or antibodies.;4;3;Mitochondria;The plasma membrane;Ribosomes;Lysosomes;
L;Inside the cells, the harmful external particles and the internal organic species to be recycled are degraded by:;Lysosomes are organelles present in the cytosol of cells and play the role of cellular trash can. They contain hydrolases, enzymes intended for the degradation of intracellular molecules. \n\nThis degradation concerns external particles, like bacteria or viruses, but the degradation also concerns internal organic species for the constant renewal of cellular elements.;4;4;Mitochondria;The plasma membrane;Ribosomes;Lysosomes;
L;In cell biology, the genetic code is:;The genetic code is the matching table between the nucleotides composing the messenger RNA molecule and the amino acids of the protein that it makes it possible to synthesize. \n\nThe messenger RNA molecule is a duplication of a portion of DNA (a gene) which is created inside the nucleus and carries the instructions for the synthesis of a specific protein. \n\nThese instructions are given by the nucleotides sequence that make up the messenger RNA molecule. Each sequence of 3 consecutive nucleotides is called a codon and the genetic code is the matching table between the codons and the amino acids that will compose the protein synthesized by this messenger RNA. \n\nSince there are 4 different nucleotides in the messenger RNA molecule (called A, G, C and U), we will have 4x4x4 = 64 different codons. The genetic code maps each of these 64 codons to an amino acid. Since there are 64 different codons and only 20 different amino acids, several identical codons will therefore be associated with the same amino acid. \n\nThis genetic code is universal because it is the same code used by all cells of all living organisms.;2;2;The set of genes carried by the chromosomes of a living organism;The matching table between the nucleotides composing the messenger RNA molecule and the amino acids of the protein that it makes it possible to synthesize;;;
L;Proteins are amino acid polymers. How many different amino acids are there?;There are 20 different amino acids. \n\nProteins are macromolecules consisting of a chain of amino acids, they are amino acid polymers. \n\nSince there are 20 different amino acids, because of this large combinatorial of amino acids, there will be a very large variety of proteins.;4;1;Twenty;Thirty;Fifty;More than a thousand;
L;Which molecule is qualified as a source of energy of the cell?;The energy provided by the nutrients is stored in the cells as ATP molecules. ATP molecules have energy-rich covalent bonds.\n\nThe rupture of these bonds will allow to restore this energy which will be directly used by the cell for its cell activities;4;3;DNA;RNA;ATP;ADP;
L;Which of the following insects has become the genetic research model since the beginning of the twentieth century?;Drosophila is widely used as a genetic research model for the following reasons: \n\nThis is a small, easy-to-handle fly (small size and easy rearing). \n\nIt has a small number of chromosomes with genes present also the higher organisms and especially in humans. \n\nThe genetic code is universal, it is the same code used by all cells of all living organisms.;4;2;Bee;Drosophila;Grasshopper;Beetle;
L;How many genes does the human genome have?;The human genome is the set of genetic material that is encoded in its DNA. \n\nThe DNA molecule is a macromolecule consisting of a sequence of nucleotides and the genes are units of genetic information contained in the DNA, formed by sequences of nucleotides, called DNA sequences. \n\nEvery gene allows the synthesis of a specific protein and determines a characteristic of the organism. \n\nThe number of genes contained in human DNA is estimated twenty-five thousand.;4;2;Five thousand;Twenty five thousand;Fifty five thousand;A million;
L;How many chromosomes has a human somatic cell (non-sexual cell)?;A human somatic cell (non-sexual cell) has 46 chromosomes or 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. \n\nEach pair of homologous chromosomes consist of a chromosome of paternal origin (brought by the male gamete or spermatozoid) and a chromosome of maternal origin (brought by the female gamete or oocyte).;2;2;Twenty three;Forty six;;;
L;For men, the pair of sex chromosomes is the pair:;For men, the pair of sex chromosomes is the XY pair. \n\nA human somatic cell (non-sexual cell) has 46 chromosomes, or 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. \n\nAmong the homologous chromosome pairs, the twenty-third pair is the pair of sex chromosomes or gonosomes (XY in humans, XX in women) that determine our genetic sex;2;1;XY;XX;;;
L;For women, the pair of sex chromosomes is the pair:;For women, the pair of sex chromosomes is the XY pair. \n\nA human somatic cell (non-sexual cell) has 46 chromosomes, or 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. \n\nAmong the homologous chromosome pairs, the twenty-third pair is the pair of sex chromosomes or gonosomes (XY in humans, XX in women) that determine our genetic sex;2;2;XY;XX;;;
L;In genetics, what does it mean for an individual to be homozygous for a given gene?;In an individual, each gene is present in pairs, with one gene coming from the father and the other from the mother. \n\nGenes are units of genetic information contained in the chromosomes that determine the characters of the individual.\n\n An individual is said to be homozygous for a given gene when the version of that gene coming from the father is the same as that coming from the mother.;2;1;The gene coming from the father is the same as the one coming from the mother;The gene coming from the father is different from the one coming from the mother;;;
L;In genetics, what does it mean for an individual to be heterozygous for a given gene?;In an individual, each gene is present in pairs, with one gene coming from the father and the other from the mother. \n\nGenes are units of genetic information contained in the chromosomes that determine the characters of the individual. \n\nAn individual is said to be heterozygous for a given gene when the version of that gene coming from the father is different from that coming from the mother;2;2;The gene coming from the father is the same as the one coming from the mother;The gene coming from the father is different from the one coming from the mother;;;
L;In genetics, the dominant gene is:;In one individual, each gene is present in pairs, with one gene coming from the father and the other from the mother. \n\nGenes are units of genetic information contained in chromosomes whose values (called alleles) determine the individual characters. \n\nWhen the allele of one of the two genes of one pair is dominant over the other, this allele masks the expression of the other. \n\nFor example, allele corresponding to the "brown eyes" character is dominant in relation to the allele corresponding to the "blue eyes" character.;2;2;The gene coming from the father;The gene from the father or the mother that masks the expression of the other gene.;;;
L;In genetics, the recessive gene is:;In one individual, each gene is present in pairs, with one gene coming from the father and the other from the mother. \n\nGenes are units of genetic information contained in chromosomes whose values (called alleles) determine the characters of the individual. \n\nWhen the allele of one of the two genes in one pair is recessive compared to the other, the expression of this allele is masked by the other allele. \n\nFor example, allele corresponding to the "blue eyes" character is recessive with respect to the allele corresponding to the "brown eyes" character.;2;2;The gene coming from the mother;The gene coming from the father or the mother whose expression is masked by the other gene.;;;
L;It is the man who determines the sex of the child during fertilization:;It is the man, through his spermatozoa, which determines the sex of the child during fertilization. \n\nFrom a genetic point of view, the man is characterized by his two X and Y chromosomes, and the woman by its two X chromosomes, present in all their cells. \n\nAfter the cell division (meiosis) that produces the gametes (sexual cells), all the female gametes (oocyte) have an X chromosome, while the male gametes (spermatozoa) have either an X chromosome or a Y chromosome. \n\nIf it is an X spermatozoa that fertilizes the oocyte, the child will be a girl, and if it is the spermatozoid Y that fertilises the oocyte, the child will be a boy.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Why do some genetic diseases affect men more than women?;Genetic diseases linked to the X chromosome, ie due to a gene only present on the X chromosome, affect men much more often than women. \n\nWhen a male individual receives a X-linked recessive gene carrying the disease, the expression of this gene is never masked by another gene since it does not have a corresponding gene on the Y chromosome. This recessive gene carrying the disease is therefore always expressed for a male individual. \n\nOn the other hand, girls must receive both X-linked recessive genes carrying the disease for it to express itself. That's why very few girls have X-linked diseases. \n\nHaemophilia and color blindness are two examples of X-linked genetic diseases that affect men much more often than women.;2;1;Because they are due to a gene present only on the X chromosome;Because they are due to the difference in lifestyle between men and women;;;
L;From genetic point of view, can medium-sized parents can have very tall or very small children?;From a genetic point of view, the "size" character is determined by 4 pairs of genes, each pair having one gene from the father and the other from the mother. It is the values (called alleles) of these genes that determine the size of the individual. \n\nFor the "size" character, it is therefore a polygenic inheritance, which means, determined by several pairs of genes. \n\nIf both parents are heterozygous (that is, if the genes of the different pairs have different alleles), the large number of combinations for the alleles of the 8 genes of the children implies that they will be able to have very varied sizes, even if parents are both of average size.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;What is the place of formation of blood cells in adults?;It is in the bone marrow that blood cells are made in adults: \n\nthe red blood cells, \nthe white blood cells, \nthe blood platelets. \n\nThe stem cells blood cells are the hemocytoblasts. At the end of their development, the blood cells migrate from the bone marrow to the blood vessels. \n\ nRemark: In the fetus, blood cells are formed in the liver.;4;4;the liver;The pancreas;The spleen;The bone marrow;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the set of observable characters of an individual?;The phenotype is the set of observable characters of an individual. \n\nNot to be confused with the genotype which is the set of individual genes. Only some of these genes will be expressed by observable characters, such as eye color, hair color, size ...;3;1;phenotype;genotype;karyotype;;
L;The injection of a serum to an individual (serotherapy) allows:;Serotherapy (injection of a serum) makes it possible to directly introduce antibodies to an individual to fight against an infection. \n\ nOn the other hand, vaccination consists of introducing into an organism pathogens whose harmfulness has been reduced, so to trigger an immune reaction leading to the activation of  B lymphocytes that will produce antibodies to neutralize these pathogens. In addition, these  B lymphocytes will keep a memory of these pathogens in order to react very quickly by producing a large quantity of antibodies if they encounter in the future these same pathogens.;2;2;To trigger an immune reaction leading to the activation of B lymphocytes that will produce antibodies.;To directly introduce antibodies to the individual.;;;
L;Injecting a vaccine to an individual allows:;Vaccination is the introduction into an organism of pathogens whose harmfulness has been attenuated, in order to trigger an immune reaction leading to the activation of B lymphocytes that will produce antibodies to neutralize these pathogens. In addition, these B lymphocytes will keep a memory of these pathogens in order to react very quickly by producing a large amount of antibodies if they encounter in the future these same pathogens. \n\nOn the other hand, serotherapy (injection of a serum) allows to directly introduce antibodies to an individual to fight against an infection.;2;1;To trigger an immune reaction leading to the activation of B lymphocytes that will produce antibodies.;To directly introduce antibodies to the individual.;;;
L;HIV causes death of the infected subject because its virus attacks and destroys:;HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) destroys T4 lymphocytes causing immune system deficiency and the appearance of opportunistic diseases and cancers;2;2;Red blood cells of the infected subject;T lymphocytes (white blood cells) of the infected subject;;;
L;In biology, what do we call the "kiss of death"?;The "kiss of death" is the action of T8 lymphocytes (white blood cells) on cells infected with viruses or abnormal cells such as cancer cells or transplanted cells. \n\nT8 lymphocytes recognize and stick to these cells and then release molecules called perforins that fit into the membrane of the target cell by causing pores piercing the membrane and causing death of the cell.;2;1;The action of T8 lymphocytes (white blood cells) on infected cells.;Transmission of a virus from one subject to another by saliva;;;
L;Which of these 3 types of leukocytes (white blood cells) destroy foreign elements that have have introduced into the body?;Macrophages ingest and destroy particles by a process called phagocytosis. These particles may be foreign elements such as bacteria or dead cells. \n\nUpon contact with the particle, the macrophage emits cytoplasmic expansions (pseudopodia) that completely envelop the particle in a large vesicle called a phagosome. The phagosome then fuses with a lysosome filled with digestive enzymes that forms a phagolysosome in which the particles are digested. Finally, the waste resulting from this digestion is expelled.;3;1;Macrophages;B lymphocytes;T8 lymphocytes;;
L;Which of these 3 types of leukocytes (white blood cells) produces antibodies that neutralize foreign elements that have introduced into the body?;Antibodies are proteins secreted by B lymphocytes in response to exposure to a pathogen such as a bacterium or a virus.\n\n The antibody will help neutralize the pathogen but not destroy it. By attaching itself to the bacterium or virus, the antibody blocks its dangerous parts, which prevents it from damaging our cells.\n\nAfter its neutralization, the bacterium or virus is destroyed by a macrophage.;3;2;Macrophages;B lymphocytes;T lymphocytes;;
L;Which of these 3 types of leukocytes (white blood cells) destroys cells infected with viruses as well as abnormal cells?;These are the T8 lymphocytes that destroy cells infected with viruses or abnormal cells such as cancer cells or grafted cells.\n\nT8 lymphocytes recognize and stick to these cells and release molecules called perforins that fit in the membrane of the target cell by causing pores piercing the membrane and causing death of the cell.;3;3;Macrophages;B lymphocytes;T lymphocytes;;
L;Cell bodies of the neurons are the star heads of neurons containing the nuclei.  In what parts of the brain and spinal cord are they located?;Cell bodies of neurons are the star heads of neurons. They contain the nuclei, they are the centers of biosynthesis of neurons and are very numerous in the gray matter of the encephalon and the spinal cord. \n\nIn the brain, the gray matter is found in the cerebral cortex, in the central gray nuclei of the brain as well as in the cerebellum.\n\nFor the spinal cord, the gray matter is at its center and is surrounded by white matter.;2;2;In the white matter of the brain and spinal cord;In the gray matter of the brain and spinal cord;;;
L;Axons are long extensions of neurons. In what parts of the brain and spinal cord are they located?;Axons are long extensions of neurons and are found in the white matter of the brain and spinal cord. \n\nThe white matter is in a central position in the brain and peripheral in the spinal cord. \n\nAxons extend outside the encephalon and spinal cord to form nerve fibers (nerves).;2;1;In the white matter of the brain and spinal cord;In the gray matter of the brain and spinal cord;;;
L;Axons are long extensions of neurons. Some of them are covered by a sheath of white substance called:;Axons are long extensions of neurons that transmit nerve impulses between the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and the various organs. \n\nAxons are enveloped by a myelin sheath which is a whitish substance rich in lipids. \n\nThe purpose of this myelin sheath is to protect the axons, electrically isolate them from each other and increase the speed of the nerve messages;2;2;dendrite;myelin;;;
L;What disease causes the destruction of the myelin sheath of nerve cells leading to progressive paralysis?;Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune disease that causes destruction of the myelin sheath surrounding the axons of neurons. \n\nAxons are long extensions of neurons that transmit nerve impulses between the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). spine) and the different organs.\n\nThe role of the myelin sheath is to protect the axons, to electrically isolate them from each other and to increase the speed of the nerve messages.\n\nThis is an autoimmune disease because it is the immune system that attacks the body's own elements, the myelin of neurons in the case of multiple sclerosis.;4;3;Alzheimer's disease;Parkinson disease;Multiple sclerosis;Huntington's disease;
L;In the nervous system, how are called the nerve pathways that convey sensory receptor information to the brain and spinal cord?;The afferent pathways (or sensory pathways) are the nerve fibers that carry information from the periphery (where the sensory receptors are) to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). These pathways inform the central nervous system about what is happening outside and inside the body. \n\nThere are 2 types of afferent fibers: \n -" The somatic afferent nerve fibers that lead the nerve impulses from the skin, sense organs, skeletal muscles and joints. \n -" The visceral afferent nerve fibers that drive nerve impulses from organs (viscera) like the heart.;2;1;The afferent pathways;The efferent pathways;;;
L;In the nervous system, how are called the nerve pathways that carry information from the brain and spinal cord to the muscles and glands?;The efferent pathways (or motor pathways) are the nerve fibers that transmit information from the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) to the effector organs (muscles and glands). \ n\nThis information causes contraction of muscles and activity of secretion of the glands.;2;2;The afferent pathways;The efferent pathways;;;
L;In a neuron, how are called the short extensions forming the receptor structure of the neuron;Dendrites are short, numerous, non-myelinated extensions that form the receptor structure of the neuron. \n\nThey transmit graded potentials (which are short-range signals) to the neuron's cell body.;2;1;dendrite;axon;;;
L;In a neuron, how is called the long extension, or nerve fiber, that drives the nerve impulses to its termination?;The axon or nerve fiber is the long extension from the axonal cone which is the place of genesis of the Potentials of Action (nerve impulse electrical signals). \n\nThis is the conductive structure of the neuron because it drives the Potentials of Action to the end of the axon. \n\nThe axonal ending forms terminal branches or terminal arborization. Axons can be myelinated.;2;2;dendrite;axon;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of the functional junction between a neuron and another cell?;The functional junction between a neuron and another cell is called a synapse. \n\nThere are 3 types of synapses: \n 1 / - Neuro-neuronal or inter neuronal synapse: Junction between a neuron and another neuron. They are the most numerous. \n 2 / - Neuro-muscular synapse or motor plate: Junction between a neuron and a skeletal muscle cell .. \n 3 / - Neuro-glandular synapse: Junction between a neuron and an endocrine cell;4;2;A membrane;A synapse;A neurotransmitter;A conduit;
L;In biology, a somatic motor nerve pathway:;Somatic motor nerve pathways are the fibers that carry information from the central nervous system to skeletal muscles. \n\nThe nervous system involving these pathways is called the somatic nervous system or voluntary nervous system because it allows us to consciously use our skeletal muscles. \n\nOn the other hand, vegetative nerve pathways exert unconscious and automatic control of our vegetative activities (those that persist during a coma), such as the activity of the heart or the digestive tract.;2;1;Exercise conscious control of our organs;Exercise an unconscious and automatic control of our organs;;;
L;In biology, a vegetative nerve path:;Vegetative nerve pathways exert an unconscious and automatic control of our vegetative activities (those that persist during a coma), such as the activity of the heart or the digestive tract. \n\nThe nervous system involving these pathways is called the autonomic nervous system or the vegetative nervous system. \n\nOn the other hand, the somatic motor nerve pathways are the fibers that voluntarily carry information from the system. central nervous system with skeletal muscles.;2;2;Exercise conscious control of our organs;Exercise an unconscious and automatic control of our organs;;;
L;The nerve message is a sucession of electric impulses flowing along the axons of the neurons. This signal maintains a constant amplitude without being attenuated. Why?;The electrical impulses that form the nerve message retain a constant amplitude because they are regenerated step by step as they propagate along the neuron axon. \n\nEach electrical impulse, called action potential, is a local modification membrane potential due to the opening and closing of ion channels allowing Na + and K + ions to pass through the membrane. \n\nThis modification of the membrane potential creates a local current which causes the opening and closing of ion channels in the neighboring area of the axon creating a new action potential in this area. \n\nThis action potential will therefore maintain a constant amplitude because it is actually regenerated permanently during its propagation along the axon of the neuron.;2;1;Because it is regenerated step by step;Because the electrical resistance of the axon is very low.;;;
L;The nervous message consists of a succession of electrical impulses circulating along the axons of the neurons. In order for it to be transmitted from one neuron to another, both neurons must be in contact.;Although there is space between the two neurons, called synaptic cleft, chemical messengers, called neurotransmitters, will allow the transmission of the neural message from one neuron to another. \n\nWhen the electrical impulse (action potentiel) arrives at the end of the axon of the first neuron called synaptic button, the latter will produce chemicals called neurotransmitters that will be expelled from the first neuron, cross the synaptic cleft and attach to ion channels located on the second neuron membrane. These neurotransmitters cause these ion channels to open and allow the calcium ions present in the synaptic cleft to enter the second neuron. \n\nThis input of calcium ions to the the interior of the neuron creates a local current thus allowing the transmission of the neuron message from the first neuron to the second neuron.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;The 2 major communication systems of the body are the nervous system and:;The nervous system is the body's fastest communication system because communications between neurons and other cells use nerve impulses that are electrical messages. \n\nThe endocrine system is another major communication system of the body that involves chemical messengers (hormones). It is slower than the nervous system because the transport of chemical messengers between the hormone-producing glands and the receptor organs is done by blood. In cooperation with the nervous system, hormones help control physiological processes such as nutrient uptake or growth.;4;2;The lymphatic system;The endocrine system;The respiratory system;The digestive system;
L;In our immune system, humoral immunity involves:;The effector agents of humoral immunity are antibodies. Antibodies are proteins called immunoglobulins secreted by B lymphocytes in response to exposure to a pathogen such as a bacterium or a virus. \n\nBy attaching itself to the bacteria or virus, the antibody blocks its dangerous parts, which prevents it from damaging our cells. After neutralization with the antibody, the bacterium or virus is destroyed by a macrophage.;2;1;Antibodies;T8 lymphocytes;;;
L;In our immune system, cellular immunity involves:;The effector agents of cellular immunity are T8 lymphocytes that destroy cells infected with viruses or abnormal cells such as cancer cells or transplanted cells. \n\nT8 lymphocytes recognize and stick to these cells and then release molecules called perforins that fit into the membrane of the target cell by causing pores piercing the membrane and causing death of the cell.;2;2;Antibodies;T8 lymphocytes;;;
L;What type of white blood cell is the conductor of our specific immune system?;T4 lymphocytes play a central role in our immune system and are considered the conductor of all our specific immunity. Indeed, following their activation after the recognition of a pathogen introduced into our organism, T4 lymphocytes will secrete interleukin 2 allowing the proliferation of T8 and B lymphocytes which are the effector agents of specific immunity (cellular immunity and humoral immunity). \n\nT8 lymphocytes allow destruction of pathogen-infected cells while B lymphocytes secrete antibodies to neutralize the pathogen. \n\nT4 lymphocytes are destroyed by the AIDS virus thus causing a deficiency of the immune system and the appearance of opportunistic diseases and cancers.;3;2;B lymphocytes;T4 lymphocytes;T8 lymphocytes;;
L;What is the nature of the nervous message called nerve impulse?;The nerve impulse is an electrical message composed of a series of electrical impulses (action potentials) propagating through the axons of the neurons. \n\nThe action potentials are modifications of the membrane potential generated by ion exchanges between the inside and the outside of the neurons.;2;1;An electrical signal;A chemical messenger;;;
L;What is testosterone?;Testosterone is the hormone produced by the testicles. \n\nTestosterone production increases sharply at the time of puberty. It stimulates spermatogenesis and causes the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics: development of hairiness and musculature, voice change, increased size of the penis and testicles.;2;1;Male sexual hormone;Female sexual hormone;;;
L;What are estrogen?;Estrogens are hormones produced by the ovaries. \n\nThe action of estrogens is to develop and maintain secondary sexual characteristics in young women at puberty. These hormones cause breast growth, menstruation, pubic hair and ovulation.;2;2;Male sexual hormones;Female sexual hormones;;;
L;What is progesterone?;Progesterone is a hormone produced by the ovaries. \n\nProgesterone is another female hormone, in addition to estrogens, which is used to prepare the uterus for pregnancy. It is produced in the second half of the menstrual cycle after ovulation, during which time its rates increase for a few days and then decrease in the absence of fertilization. Progesterone acts on the lining of the uterus and allows menstruation to occur at the end of each menstrual cycle.;2;2;Male sexual hormone;Female sexual hormone;;;
L;How are called the substances produced by the endocrine glands?;The endocrine glands produce hormones. \n\nHormones are substances released into the bloodstream by the endocrine glands intended to control many processes such as reproduction, growth, development, metabolism, the balance of the internal environment. \n\nThe endocrine glands are disseminated throughout the body: The pituitary is in the cranial box, the thyroid in the neck, the thymus in the thorax, the adrenal glands and the pancreas in the abdomen, ovaries and testicles in the basin.;4;3;neurotransmitters;enzymes;hormones;Antibody;
L;Which organ secretes hormones to regulate blood glucose?;The pancreas secretes two hormones, insulin and glucagon, to regulate blood sugar. \n\nIn case of high blood glucose, insulin will stimulate the formation of liver glycogen from glucose, which allows to store the sugar and therefore to lower the blood sugar. \n\nIn case of low blood sugar, glucagon will stimulate the breakdown of glycogen into glucose, which produces glucose in the blood and increases blood sugar.;4;2;Liver;pancreas;spleen;kidneys;
L;Which gland of the body secretes adrenaline which is the stress hormone?;Adrenaline is a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla which is the inner part of the adrenal glands that cap the upper part of each kidney. \n\nThis hormone is secreted in response to intense emotions such as fear or anger. It will trigger a reaction in which blood pressure rises, pupils dilate, and blood is directed primarily to vital organs and skeletal muscles. \n\nAdrenaline is also a neurotransmitter that has the same effects as the hormone but acts faster. On the other hand, its effect is of shorter duration.;4;4;pituitary;thyroid;thymus;adrenal gland;
L;What is the speed of nerve impulse propagation along the axon of a neuron?;The speed of nerve impulse propagation along the axon of a neuron ranges from 1 to 100 m / s depending on the diameter of the axon and its degree of myelination. This speed is all the greater as the diameter of the axon is weak and its myelin sheath is thick. \n\nAlthough the nerve impulse is composed of electrical impulses, its speed of propagation is well below that of an electric current flowing in a copper wire. The reason is that the electrical impulses composing the nerve impulses are local modifications of the membrane potential caused by chemical processes whose reaction times limit the speed of propagation.;2;1;1 à 100 m/s;About 200 000 km/s;;;
L;From these 4 chemical molecule families, which one does not contain any hormone?;A hormone is a molecule produced by an endocrine cell, transported by the blood and exerting effects at a distance on target cells, that is to say on cells that have receptors specific to this hormone. \n\nFrom a chemical point of view, a hormone can be a lipid (example: cortisol, testosterone), a protein (example: insulin), an amine (example: adrenaline) but is never a carbohydrate.;4;1;Carbohydrates;Lipids;Proteins;Amines;
L;To be able to act on the functioning of the cells, all the hormones must be able to cross their plasma membranes;Some hormones may act on cells without crossing their plasma membranes. It is the protein hormones that are water-soluble and cannot cross the plasma membranes of cells formed by a lipid bilayer. \n\nThese protein hormones, unable to penetrate inside the cell, will be fixed on receptors located on its membrane. By binding to these receptors, they modify their conformation which will trigger, by a signaling mechanism, chemical processes creating a new intracellular messenger which is the relay of the first extracellular messenger that is the starting hormone. \n\nThis transduction system allows amplification of the starting hormonal signal because a hormone will lead to the production of many molecules of the same second messenger. This amplification explains that a hormone can act at low doses.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Why are the human testicles located outside the abdomen?;The testicles (or male gonads) are located outside the abdominal cavity, in a skin sac called scrotum or purses. \n\nThis position keeps them at a temperature slightly lower than 37 degrees, a necessary condition for the production of spermatozoa viable.;2;2;To facilitate the coupling;For temperature reasons;;;
L;Do all mammals have their testicles located outside the abdomen like humans?;The human testicles are located outside the abdominal cavity, in a cutaneous sac, called scrotum or purses. This position keeps them at a temperature slightly lower than 37 degrees, a necessary condition for the production of viable sperm. Regarding other mammals, some also have external testicles such as felines, dogs, or horses, while others have internal testicles such as marine mammals or elephants.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;What substance in the blood can be a marker of prostate cancer?;PSA ("Prostatic Specific Antigen") is a protein produced by prostate cells which is present in sperm and in smaller quantity in the blood. \n\nA blood test will then allow to evaluate its rate. A high PSA level is a good indicator of exaggerated prostate activity that is a marker for prostate cancer.;4;3;FSH;EPO;PSA;ANP;
L;Up to what age can man produce sperm?;Spermatogenesis, the formation of spermatozoa in humans, is a continuous process that takes place permanently from puberty to death. \n\nThis is a process with a very high production efficiency: about 200 million sperm are produced each day.;4;4;40 years;60 years;80 years;Until death;
L;How many spermatozoa does a man produce every day?;Man produces about 200 million spermatozoa every day. \n\nThis spermatozoa production is a continuous process from puberty to death.;4;4;About two hundred miles;About two million;About twenty million;About two hundred million;
L;What is the name of the human stem cells that will become spermatozoa?;The stem cells that cause spermatozoa formation are spermatogonia. \n\nThis process of sperm formation from spermatogonia takes place in the testicles and is called spermatogenesis. \n\nThis is a continuous process that goes from puberty to death with a very high yield: about 200 million spermatozoa are produced every day.;3;1;spermatogonia;spermatocytes;spermatids;;
L;At what age does man begin to produce testosterone (male sex hormone)?;The production of testosterone appears from the gestation after the formation of the testicles of the fetus. It allows the appearance of primary sex characteristics: masculinization of the genital tract and external genitalia (formation of the penis and testicles). \n\nAfter birth the rate of testosterone becomes very low and then increases again strongly at the time of puberty. It activates spermatogenesis and causes the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics: development of hair and musculature, voice changes, penis and testicles size increase.;3;1;From fetus;From birth;At puberty;;
L;What is a neurohormone?;Neurohormones are hormones secreted by nerve cells (neurons). Like a hormone, a neurohormone is a chemical messenger that is secreted into the blood and can therefore act remotely on another organ through the bloodstream. Neurohormones are secreted by the hypothalamus which is a nerve center at the base of the brain. Examples of neurohormones secreted by the hypothalamus:\nADH (or anti-diuretic hormone) which decreases the production of urine. \nOocytocin which stimulates the contractions of the muscle of the uterus (myometrium) during childbirth and which is responsible for the ejection of the milk. \nThe GnRH or gonadotropin-releasing hormone which regulates activity of the sex glands;2;2;A hormone whose destination is a neuron;A hormone secreted by a neuron;;;
L;Neurohormones and neurotransmitters are two substances secreted by neurons. Which of these 2 substances acts at a short distance?;A neurotransmitter is a chemical messenger that acts on the junction (called synapse) between 2 neurons to transmit the nerve impulse between the 2 neurons. It acts therefore at a very short distance. \n\nBy contrast, a neurohormone is a hormone secreted by a neuron. Like any hormone, it is a chemical messenger that is secreted in the blood and can therefore act at a large distance on another organ through the bloodstream.;2;2;Neurohormones;Neurotransmitters;;;
L;Neurohormones and neurotransmitters are two substances secreted by neurons. Which of these 2 substances acts at a large distance?;A neurohormone is a hormone secreted by a neuron. Like any hormone, it is a chemical messenger that is secreted in the blood and therefore acts at a large distance on another organ through the bloodstream. \n\nBy contrast, a neurotransmitter is a chemical messenger that acts on the junction ( called synapse) between 2 neurons to transmit the nerve impulse between the 2 neurons. It therefore acts at a very short distance.;2;1;Neurohormones;Neurotransmitters;;;
L;What testicle cells produce testosterone (male sex hormone)?;Testosterone (male sex hormone) is produced by Leydig cells. These cells form the interstitial connective tissue located between the seminiferous tubules where the spermatozoa are produced. \n\nTestosterone production occurs as early as gestation after fetal testicle formation. It allows the appearance of primary sex characteristics: masculinization of the genital tract and external genitalia (formation of the penis and testicles). \n\nAfter birth, the rate of testosterone becomes very low and then increases again strongly at the time of birth. puberty. It activates spermatogenesis and causes the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics: hair and musculature development, voice change, penis and testicles size increase.;2;2;Sertoli cells;Leydig cells;;;
L;What is the name of the testicle part where the spermatozoa are produced?;The spermatozoa are produced inside the walls of the seminiferous tubules located in the testicles. \n\nSperm then follow the epididymitis channel where they finish their maturation (mobility and ability to fertilize). \n\nThen, they go into the vas deferens, then into the ejaculatory ducts that go through the prostate and finally arrive in the urethra located inside the penis which is the terminal portion of the male genital tract.;4;2;The epididymitis canal;The seminiferous tubes;The vas deferens;The urethra;
L;Male sperm consists of spermatozoa and seminal fluid. How many glands produce seminal fluid;The seminal fluid contained in the sperm is produced by the following 5 glands: \nThe 2 seminal vesicles which produce 60% of the volume of the seminal fluid. They produce fructose (sperm nutrient). \nThe prostate. Its secretion plays a role in the activation of spermatozoa. \nThe 2 Cowper glands (or bulbo-urethral glands). They produce a lubricating fluid that neutralizes the acidity of urine traces in the urethra.;4;4;One;Two;Four;Five;
L;The tissue fiber that connects the bones together is called:;A ligament is a band of fibrous connective tissue that connects two bones forming a joint. Its role is to limit the excessive movement of the joint, to stabilize it and avoid injuries. \n\nA tendon is a cord of collagen fibers that makes the connection between muscle and bone to transmit movement and strength .;2;1;A ligament;A tendon;;;
L;The tissue fiber that connects a muscle to a bone is called:;A tendon is a bead of collagen fibers that binds muscle and bone to transmit movement and strength. \n\nA ligament is a band of fibrous connective tissue that connects two bones forming a joint. Its role is to limit the excessive movement of the joint, to stabilize it and avoid injuries.;2;2;A ligament;A tendon;;;
L;In which part of the female genital tract does fertilization take place (encounter between the spermatozoon and the oocyte)?;The meeting between a spermatozoon and the oocyte takes place in the fallopian tubes which connect the ovaries where the oocytes are formed to the uterus. \n\nMore precisely it takes place in the part of the fallopian tubes called the bulb which is located between the pavilion which is connected to the ovary, and the isthmus which opens into the uterus.;3;3;The vagina;The uterus;The fallopian tubes;;
L;According to the ABO system, there are 4 different blood groups: A, B, AB and O. According to this system, which group can give blood to any other group?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith group A, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith group B, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies to the A. antigen. \nWith group AB red blood cells carry both antigens A and B and white blood cells do not produce antibodies. \nWith group O, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nA person from group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells which don't carry antigen, will not be destroyed by the recipient's white blood cells. \nA person from group AB will be "universal recipient" because his white blood cells did not produce antibodies to either the A antigen or the B antigen. \n\nRemark: Also taking into account the rhesus factor (+/-) that complements the ABO system, the "universal donor" will be the group O- and the "universal receiver" the group AB +;4;4;A     ;B     ;AB    ;O     ;
L;According to the ABO system, there are 4 different blood groups: A, B, AB and O. According to this system, which group can receive blood from any other group?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith group A, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith group B, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies to the A. antigen. \nWith group AB red blood cells carry both antigens A and B and white blood cells do not produce antibodies. \nWith group O, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nA person from group AB will be "universal recipient" because his white blood cells did not produce antibodies to either the A antigen or the B antigen.  \nA person from group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells which don't carry antigen, will not be destroyed by the recipient's white blood cells.  \n\nRemark: Also taking into account the rhesus factor (+/-) that complements the ABO system, the "universal donor" will be the group O- and the "universal receiver" the group AB +;4;3;A;B;AB;O;
L;In human anatomy, where are the cervical glands located?;The cervical glands are the glands in the cervix of the woman whose secretion generates cervical mucus. \n\nThe consistency of cervical mucus varies with the period of the menstrual cycle. It is thick at the beginning of the cycle then gradually becomes more fluid and shooting. Its role is to filter the spermatozoa by preventing their penetration into the uterus except at the time of ovulation where its consistency is less viscous;2;2;At the bottom of the neck;In the cervix of the woman's womb;;;
L;At what age does oogenesis begin for women?;Oogenesis is the process of egg formation by the woman and begins at the fetal stage.In the ovary of the fetus, multiplication by cell division of gametes will form a stock of several million of oocytes which will remain blocked until puberty. \n\nAfter puberty, a small number of these oocytes (a few hundred) are activated and undergo an important growth to form oocytes potentially fecundable. Every month, an oocyte is expelled from the ovary and if it meets a spermatozoon fertilization occurs. The oocyte and sperm then form an egg that will become an embryo. \n\nThis monthly process of ovulation ends at menopause. \n\nAs opposed to women, spermatogenesis , which is the process of sperm formation, is a continuous process that begins at puberty and continues until death.;3;1;From the fetus;From birth;At puberty;;
L;At what age does spermatogenesis begin for men?;Spermatogenesis is the process of sperm formation. It is a continuous process that begins at puberty and continues until death. \n\nAs opposed to men, oogenesis, which is the process of egg formation by the woman, begins at the stage of the fetus. In the ovary of the fetus multiplication by cell division of the gametes will form a stock of several million of oocytes which will remain blocked until puberty. It is only from puberty, that a small number (a few hundred) of these oocytes will become mature and may be fertilized each month to form eggs. This monthly process of ovulation ends at menopause.;3;3;From the fetus;From birth;At puberty;;
L;What is the name of the female gamete (female sexual cell)?;The female gamete (female sexual cell) is an oocyte. \n\nAn oocyte that has been fertilized by a sperm is an ovum;2;1;oocyte;ovule;;;
L;Pregnancy tests are based on measuring the blood or urine level of which hormone?;Pregnancy tests are based on measuring the blood or urine of the hCG hormone that is produced by the embryo shortly after fertilization. \n\nThe role of hCG hormone is to maintain the "corpus luteum" in the ovary because it secretes progesterone which allows to maintain in the uterus the mucous membrane that receive the embryo. \n\nThe "corpus luteum" is formed from the follicle which contained the oocyte that the ovary expelled during ovulation. In the absence of fertilization, the corpus luteum will regress and disappear completely. On the other hand, if there is fertilization, thanks to the hormone hCG, the corpus luteum will be maintained and thus allow to continue the production of progesterone.;3;3;estrogen;progesterone;hCG;;
L;How often does ovulation (expulsion of an ovocyte by the ovary) occur in women?;Ovulation in women occurs every 28 days. It occurs in the middle of the 28-day ovarian cycle and is repeated until there is fertilization. \n\nThe ovarian cycle has a follicular phase before ovulation and a luteal phase after ovulation. \n\nThe follicular phase corresponds to the rapid growth of follicles containing the oocytes. During ovulation, the mature follicle releases its oocyte which is expelled from the ovary. \n\nIn the phase luteal, the broken follicle that has released its oocyte turns into a yellow body that secretes progesterone. The effect of this hormone is to maintain in the uterus the mucosa that must host the eventual embryo. In the absence of fertilization, the corpus luteum regresses and disappears completely and the mucous membrane to receive the embryo is eliminated (menstrual bleeding ). On the other hand, if there is fertilization, the corpus luteum is maintained, so it continues to secrete the progesterone and the mucous of the uterus that receive the embryo is preserved.;4;3;Every 7 days;Every 14 days;Every 28 days;Every 42 days;
L;Protons and neutrons are not elementary particles like electrons, but are composed of other particles. What is the name of these particles?;Unlike electrons, protons and neutrons are not elementary particles, they are composed of other particles called quarks. \n\nThere are different types of quark: \nThe up quark (noted u) which has 2/3 of the proton charge. \nThe quark down (noted d) which has -1/3 (negative charge) of the proton charge. \n\nA proton is composed of 2 u quarks and 1 d quark. It is positively charged. \n\nA neutron is composed of 2 quarks d and 1 u quark. It is electrically neutral.;4;1;Quarks;Leptons;Bosons;Fermions;
L;Each proton or neutron is made up of 3 elementary particles called quarks. Why this number of 3?;Strong interaction is the force that makes quark cohesion inside the proton or neutron. This force is characterized by a parameter called "color" which can be of 3 types: red, green or blue. In strong interaction, the "color" has the same function as  the charge for electrostatic. The combination of these 3 colors forms a white resulting color which is the equivalent of a zero charge for electrostatic. \n\nThe 3 colors red, green and blue attract each other, so as to naturally form red + green + blue blocks. This is why quarks associate themselves 3 by 3 in a proton or a neutron. A fourth quark cannot be grafted to the first 3, since there is no more strong interaction: the white color resulting from the association of the first 3 quarks means "zero charge for the strong interaction".;2;1;Because the strong interaction that ensures the cohesion of the quarks is driven by a parameter that can be of 3 types: red, green or blue.;Because there are 3 types of quarks corresponding to the 3 quarks that compose the proton or the neutron.;;;
L;How many elementary particles called quarks is a proton or a neutron?;Unlike electrons, protons and neutrons are not elementary particles, they are composed of 3 other particles called quarks. \n\nThere are different types of quark: \nThe up quark (noted u) which has 2/3 of the proton charge. \nThe quark down (noted d) which has -1/3 (negative charge) of the proton charge. \n\nA proton is composed of 2 u quarks and 1 d quark. It is positively charged. \n\nA neutron is composed of 2 quarks d and 1 u quark. It is electrically neutral.;4;2;Two;Three;Four;Five;
L;Which scientist discovered and demonstrated that light had a finite speed?;Danish astronomer Ole Christensen Rømer demonstrated in 1676, observing the satellite Io of Jupiter, that light did not have an infinite speed and gave a first estimate for it. \n\nThe astronomer found that the period of revolution of the satellite (between two eclipses) was changing, which was contrary to Kepler's laws. \n\nThe only variable being the changing distance between Jupiter and the Earth, Römer deduced that the difference in the period of revolution was necessarily due to the light travel time. Light had a finite speed! Using approximate measurements and instruments, Römer estimated his speed at 225,000 km / s (while the actual speed is 300,000 km / s).;4;2;Isaac Newton;Ole Christensen Rømer;James Clerk Maxwell;Albert Einstein;
L;In what year was discovered that light had a finite speed?;It was in 1676 that the Danish astronomer Ole Christensen Rømer, observing the satellite Io of Jupiter, demonstrated that light did not have an infinite speed and gave a first estimate for it. \n\nThe astronomer found that the period of revolution of the satellite (between two eclipses) was changing, which was contrary to Kepler's. \n\nThe only variable being the changing distance between Jupiter and the Earth, Römer deduced that the difference in the period of revolution was necessarily due to the light travel time. Light had a finite speed! Using approximate measurements and instruments, Römer estimated his speed at 225,000 km / s (while the actual speed is 300,000 km / s).;4;1;1676;1687;1890;1905;
L;According to Einstein's special relativity, the duration separating two events occurring at the same place in a moving repository is different from that observed in the fixed repository.;In his theory of special relativity elaborated in 1905, Einstein fixed as postulate the invariance of the speed of light. It is the same in all Galilean repositories, and is equal to 300 000km/s. This invariance of speed of light causes two major phenomena when changing of repository: \nTime expands compared to the repository where events occur in the same place. \n Distances are contracted in relation to the reference frame where both ends are fixed. \n\nThe dilation of time is verified by the observation of muons (very short-lived particles) circulating at very high speed in storage rings. Due to the dilation of time in the laboratory reference system, these particles can be preserved over periods tens of times longer than their lifetime. ;2;1;It is shorter than in the fixed repository;It is longer than in the fixed repository;;;
L;According to Einstein's special relativity, the distance between 2 points linked to a moving repository is different from that found in the fixed repository.;In his theory of special relativity elaborated in 1905, Einstein fixed as postulate the invariance of the speed of light. It is the same in all Galilean repositories, and is equal to 300 000km/s. This invariance of speed of light causes two major phenomena when changing of repository: \nTime expands compared to the repository where events occur in the same place. \nDistances are contracted against the repository where both ends are fixed.;2;1;It is larger than in the fixed repository;It is shorter than in the fixed repository;;;
L;In Einstein's special relativity, what is the name of the law of transformation of the coordinates of space and time between two inertial repositories?;In Einstein's special relativity, the Lorentz transformation calculates the new coordinates of space and time when changing the inertial repository. This transformation replaces the Galilean transformation that is used in classical mechanics. \n\nThe Lorentz transformation corrects the problems encountered with the Galilean transformation because it ensures the invariance of the speed of light and of the electromagnetism laws.;4;3;Laplace's transformation;The transformation of Maxwell;The transformation of Lorentz;The transformation of Minkowski;
L;In which year did Eisnstein publish his theory of special relativity?;The theory of special relativity was published in 1905 by Albert Einstein. It provides a coherent description of the physical phenomena when speed is closed to the speed of light. \n\nBased on the invariance of the speed of light, it involves two major phenomena when one changes of repository: \nTime expands compared to the repository where events occur in the same place. \nDistances are contracted against the repository where both ends are fixed.;4;3;1895;1900;1905;1915;
L;In what year did Eisnstein publish his theory of general relativity?;The theory of general relativity was elaborated from 1907 by Albert Einstein and published in 1915. \nAccording nto this theory, gravitational attraction is not the result of an attractive force between massive objects as in the Newton's model but is caused by a deformation of space-time due to the presence of these objects;4;4;1895;1900;1905;1915;
L;In Einstein's theory of relativity, the proper time of a moving particle is:;In Einstein's special relativity, the proper time of a moving particle is the time measured by an observer moving with the particle. \n\nThe special relativity of Einstein shows that time is not universal but depends on the repository in which it is measured. Thus we observe that the duration separating 2 events occurring at the same place in a moving repository is shorter in this repository than the same duration measured in fixed reference.;2;1;The time measured by an observer moving with the particle;The time measured by an observer fixed with respect to the particle;;;
L;Why an object cannot exceed the speed of light?;The fundamental principle of dynamics tells us that the force exerted on a body is equal to the rate of change over time of its momentum. When a force is exerted on a body, its momentum increases uniformly over time. But the body will never be able to reach the speed of light because, according to Einstein's special relativity, as it requires an infinite momentum to reach the speed of light, one should wait an eternity for achieve it.;2;1;Because its momemtum becomes bigger and bigger when its speed approaches that of light;Because it would explode before reaching the speed of light;;;
L;The principle underlying Einstein's theory of general relativity is called:;The equivalence principle is the foundation of Einstein's theory of general relativity, built in 1915. \n\nThe equivalence principle translates the identity of the mass grave, which determines the sensitivity of an object to the attraction of a gravitational field, and of the inert mass, which determines the degree of resistance of an object to a modification of its movement. \n\nThis identity between these two masses results that someone in a cabin who does not feel any gravity, cannot detect if the cabin is in free fall or if it is far enough in the cosmos to escape the influence of any source of gravitation.  \n\nThis principle which led Einstein to consider gravitation not as a force exerted from one object to another, but as linked to the deformation of the very structure of space-time.;4;2;The equality principle;The equivalence principle;The inertia principle;The gravitation principle;
L;According to Einstein's theory of general relativity, the flow of time depends on the intensity of the gravitational field.;Einstein's theory of general relativity shows that time flows more slowly when the gravitational field is more intense and faster when the gravitational field is less intense. \n\nThis difference in time flow following intensity of the gravitational field is taken into account in the GPS system. Satellites used by GPS moving at altitude, undergo a gravitational attraction 20 times lower than on earth and by this effect their time is accelerated by 45 microseconds per day. A correction is done by the GPS to take into account for this time difference. Without correction, the GPS indication would shift approximately 10km per day.;2;1;Time flows more slowly when the gravitational field is more intense;Time flows faster when the gravitational field is more intense;;;
L;According to Einstein's special relativity, the mass of an object varies with its speed.;According to Einstein's theory of special relativity, the mass of an object, unlike its charge, increases with its speed. \n\nThe mass of an object becomes almost infinite when its speed approaches that of light, which is why it can never exceed the speed of light. The mass of the object measuring the resistance to its increase in speed, it would take almost infinite force to continue to accelerate if its mass is almost infinite.;2;1;It increases with speed;It decreases with speed;;;
L;Which mathematician helped Albert Einstein to build his theory of general relativity?;A classmate and friend of Albert Einstein, Marcel Grossmann helped Einstein with non-Euclidean geometries required for the construction of the theory of general relativity. \n\nHe gave Einstein the tools to control tensors, mathematical objects essential to the formation of this theory.;4;2;Hermann Minkowski;Marcel Grossmann;Henri Poincaré;HC Lorentz;
L;When we go back in time using Einstein's equations of general relativity to arrive at the Big Bang, we arrive at a time when the physics laws become false. What is this time?;The time just after the Big Bang beyond which the laws of physics are no longer valid is called the Planck's wall. \n\nThe Big Bang corresponds to the time of the mathematical singularity that is obtained when we go back in time using Einstein's equations of general relativity because by applying these equations, the universe becomes of infinite density and infinite temperature. \n\nThe Planck's wall is a symbolic wall beyond which we have no knowledge because the laws of physics no longer apply. From the Planck's wall, time, space, energy and matter become descriptible by the theories of physics. The universe is expanding.;4;3;Minkowski's wall;Hubble's wall;Planck's wall;Friedmann's wall;
L;Why do the stable nuclei of light elements contain as many neutrons as protons?;It takes as many neutrons as protons in a nucleus of light element to ensure its stability: \nToo few neutrons cause too much electrostatic repulsion, too many neutrons cause, due to the weak interaction, their mutation in protons, which are of lower mass and therefore of lower energy.;2;1;To compensate the electrostatic repulsion between protons by attraction force due to the strong interaction with the presence of neutrons.;Because the mass of protons must be equal to the mass of neutrons to ensure the stability of the nucleus.;;;
L;Why must stable nuclei of heavy elements have more neutrons than protons?;It is the strong interaction that explains the cohesion of the nucleons (protons and neutrons) of the nucleus by offsetting the electrostatic repulsion that is exerted between the protons. \n\nThe strong interaction that takes place between the nucleons decreases much faster with the distance that the electrostatic repulsion between the protons: thus, the larger the nucleus, the stronger the repulsion with respect to the attraction. \n\nTo compensate for this, the heavy elements have more neutrons than protons.;2;1;Because the strong interaction that ensures the cohesion of the nucleus thanks to the neutrons decreases much faster with the distance than the electrostatic repulsion between the protons;The mass of a neutron being smaller than that of a proton, it takes more neutrons to have same mass between neutrons and protons and to ensure the stability of the nucleus;;;
L;Who discovered radioactivity in 1896?;Radioactivity was discovered by Henri Becquerel in 1896: he discovered that uranium emitted radiation that behaved similarly to X-rays, without the need to give it any energy. \n\nLater experiments, especially by Pierre and Marie Curie, made it possible to specify the nature of the emitted particles and radiation.;4;2;Albert Einstein;Henri Becquerel;Max Planck;Marie Curie;
L;What type of radioactivity causes the emission of a helium nucleus?;An alpha radioactive nucleus emits an "alpha particle" which is a helium nucleus. \n\nAlfa radioactivity only concerns heavy elements. These large nuclei can become unstable because the electrostatic repulsion between protons becomes more important relative to the strong interaction because it is longer-range. \n\nExamples of radioactive alpha isotopes: uranium 238 or polonium 210;3;1;Alpha radioactivity;Beta radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;;
L;What type of radioactivity causes the emission of an electron?;A beta- radioactive nucleus emits an electron and an antineutrino.\n\n In the nucleus of a beta- radioactive atom, due to the weak interaction, a quark d transforms into an u quark with the emission of a boson. W-, which causes the mutation of a neutron into a proton. \n\nThe W-boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into an electron and an antineutrino (neutrino antiparticle). \n\nFinally, the radioactivity beta- causes the emission of an electron and an antineutrino. \n\nExample of radioactive isotope beta-: carbon 14 (used for the dating of living organisms);4;2;Alpha radioactivity;Beta- radioactivity;Beta+ radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;
L;What type of radioactivity causes the emission of a positron (antielectron)?;A beta+ radioactive nucleus emits a positron (antielectron) and a neutrino. \n\nIn the nucleus of a beta+ radioactive atom, because of the weak interaction, a quark u transforms into a quark d with the emission of a W+ boson, which causes the mutation of a proton into a neutron. \n\nThe W+ boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into a positron (antielectron) and a neutrino. \n\nFinally, beta+ radioactivity causes the emission of a positron and a neutrino. \n\nExample of radioactive isotope beta+: fluorine 18;4;3;Alpha radioactivity;Beta- radioactivity;Beta+ radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;
L;Which is the carbon isotope that is used for dating living organisms?;Carbon 14 is the radioactive isotope of carbon used for dating living organisms. Its half-life, after which half of these atoms has decayed to nitrogen 14, is 5730 years old. \n\nCarbon 14 is continually generated in the upper atmosphere by collisions between cosmic rays and nitrogen 14. This creation process is compensated for by natural disintegration, so that a balance is created in the atmosphere: the proportion of carbon 14 with respect to stable carbon 12 remains constant. \n\nThis proportion is found in organisms living in contact with the air. But after death, the disintegration of carbon is no longer offset by its creation, and the proportion of carbon 14 in the body decreases gradually. \n\nAs the radioactive period is 5730 years, if we find a proportion of two times lower of carbon 14 than in a living organism, this means that the organism died and was isolated from the air 5730 years ago. It is an excellent method for measuring the age of an organic material on scales of a few thousand to a few tens of thousands of years.;3;3;Carbon 12;Carbon 13;Carbon 14;;
L;Which astronomer who, observing that the galaxies are moving away from each other, has proved the expansion of the universe?;In 1929, the American astronomer Edwin Hubble publishes his works which affirm that the galaxies are moving away from each other the faster they are distant. The notion of expansion of the universe that had been predicted by the two physicists Alexandre Friedmann and Georges Lemaître is therefore confirmed by Hubble. \n\nIndeed, by applying the equations of general relativity elaborated in 1915 by Albert Einstein, Friedmann and Lemaître had both arrived independently to the conclusion that the universe was not static and had to be expanding. \n\nFriedmann and Lemaître are also at the origin of the Big Bang which is the scientific theory that tries to explain the first moments of the Universe. This is the beginning of the Universe's expansion, about 13.7 billion years ago, when the Universe was extremely dense and warm. \n\nThe observations of Hubble have shown that the universe is indeed expanding and consequently bringing a first proof to the Big Bang theory.;4;2;Hermann Minkowski;Edwin Hubble;Marcel Grossmann;Alexandre Friedmann;
L;What is the name of the attractive, invisible material forming 83% of the universe?;Astronomers have observed that the stars revolve around the galactic center at a very high speed, which testify to a strong mass, much larger than what is revealed by the luminosity of the galaxy. \ n\nTherefore there is a hidden, unlighted mass and of unknown nature that astronomers have called "dark matter" and that would form up to 83% of the mass present in the known universe.;3;3;White matter;Gray matter;Dark matter;;
L;What is the name of the energy responsible for accelerating the universe expansion?;The observations made by the American astronomer Edwin Hubble in 1929 showed that the universe is expanding. \n\nAt the end of the 1990s, the Hubble Space Telescope, commissioned in 1990, made it possible to accurately measure the speed of distance from galaxies. It was found that this speed was increasing rather than decreasing as one might have thought, because of the gravitational force that must oppose this growing distance. \n\nAll happens as if the universe contains an invisible repulsive matter in greater proportion than the ordinary attractive matter. The void itself seems to have a repulsive power: it is called "dark energy", whose origin remains unknown to this day.;3;3;White energy;Gray energy;Dark energy;;
L;How old is the universe according to astrophysicists' estimates?;The age of the universe is estimated at 13.8 billion years by astrophysicists. \n\nThe age of the universe is in fact the historical limit to which we can trace the Big Bang theory in the evolution of the universe. \n\ nThis limit corresponds to the initial singularity that is reached when one makes the path of the backward expansion, when the universe, currently cold and diluted, becomes so hot and dense that the equations of physics are no longer applicable.;4;3;3.8 billion years;8,8 billion years;13,8 billion years;18,8 billion years;
L;What is the name of the first radiation emitted by the expanding universe after the Big Bang?;The first electromagnetic radiation emitted by the expanding universe after the Big Bang is called the Cosmic Microwave Background. At the very beginning of the Big Bang, the universe consisted of an incredibly hot soup made of charged particles and of photons. Its constituents were packed so densely that it was impossible for a photon to move away without some interaction and, as a result, the light could not escape. \n\nAs and when it relaxed, the universe cooled and eventually reached, about 380 000 years after the Big Bang, temperatures low enough for charged particles to assemble to form the very first atoms, which themselves no longer blocked the photons that could then spread in the universe. The photons then gave rise to electromagnetic radiation, the cosmic microwave background, which uniformly fills the space. \n\nThe space expansion makes the wavelength of photons (originally energy-rich ) expands considerably. The radiation that can be observed today and that was emitted more than 13 billion years ago is in a wavelength between infrared and radio waves.;4;4;Initial cosmic radiation;Primitive cosmic radiation;Primitive diffuse background;cosmic microwave background;
L;What is the name of the space telescope, operational since 1990, named after a famous astronomer?;The Hubble Space Telescope is an orbiting telescope, operational since 1990, named after astronomer Edwin Hubble. It was developed by NASA with participation of the European Space Agency. The observation of the universe in orbit is indeed much better than on the ground from where the atmosphere, emitting a background noise, hinders the measurements. \n\nHubble is equipped with a mirror of 2.4 meters of diameter, and can be observed both in the visible light field and in the infrared and ultraviolet range. \n\nThe data collected by Hubble has contributed to far-reaching discoveries in the field of astrophysics, such as measuring the rate of expansion of the universe, confirming the presence of supermassive black holes in the center of galaxies or the existence of dark matter and dark energy.;4;1;Hubble;Penzia;Wilson;Gamov;
L;Which radio-astronomers discovered in 1964 the radiation of the cosmic microwave background, which is the first radiation emitted by the expanding universe after the Big Bang?;The discovery of radiation from the cosmic microwave background in 1965 by Robert Woodrow Wilson and Arno Allan Penzias was accidental: by working on a new type of antenna at Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, New Jersey, USA, they found a source of noise in the atmosphere they could not explain. \n\nAfter analysis, this noise turns out to be a microwave radiation, uniform in all directions: Woodrow and Penzias have just discovered the radiation of the cosmic microwave background: first radiation emitted after the Big Bang more than 13 billion years ago, when the universe was sufficiently relaxed and cooled to allow photons to spread in the universe without being blocked by the magma of charged particles present at the beginning of the Big Bang. \n\nThis discovery was an important argument in favor of the Big Bang theory.;3;2;Friedmann and Lemaître;Wilson and Penzias;Gamov and Hubble;;
L;What is the cause of the slowing down of the earth's rotation?;The great cause of the slowdown of the earth's rotation is the moon. \n\nThe cause of this slowdown is as follows: Due to inertia, the bead of tides caused by the attraction of the moon takes time to form and is offset from the earth moon alignment. Because of this shift, the satellite is constantly pulling these masses of water back, braking the entire globe.;3;3;It is due to friction inside the atmosphere;It is due to the cosmic rays that enter the atmosphere;It is due to the force of attraction exerted by the moon;;
L;Why, in some years, is it necessary to correct the UTC time by one second?;It is necessary, in certain years, to correct by one second the UTC time so that it remains close to the average solar time linked to the rotation of the earth. The objective of this correction is that the UTC never deviates from the average solar time by more than 0.9 s. \n\nThe UTC time is the international civil time and is clocked by an atomic clock. In order that this time remains synchronized with the earth rotation, whose movement is disturbed by many effects such as its slowdown due to the moon attraction, it is corrected by one second some years. \n\nSince 1972, when this correction was implemented, 5 one-second additions were made in 2006, 2009, 2012, 2015 and 2016.;2;1;To correct the change in duration of the earth rotation;To correct the change in duration of the solar year;;;
L;The planets revolve around the sun following an elliptical trajectory. When do the planets have the fastest speed?;In its orbit around the sun, a planet goes faster when it is near the sun than when it is far away from it. \n\nThe reason is that there must be conservation of the angular momentum of the planet in relation to the sun. Since the angular momentum is equal to MVL, we can deduce that V1 / V2 = L2 / L1. The ratio of speeds is equal to the inverse of the ratio of distances to the sun.;2;1;When they are closest to the sun ("perihelion");When they are farthest from the sun ("aphelion");;;
L;In relation to the earth, the moon:;The moon is gradually moving away from the earth. It has been measured as going away from 3.2 cm per year. \n\nThe reason is that there must be conservation of the angular momentum of the earth-moon system because the sun does not, on average, have any moment on it . \n\nThe moon attraction causing a slowdown in the earth rotation, the earth loses angular momentum. The moon must therefore gain revolution angular momentum mvl, hence its gradual removal from the earth. \n\nThus, the moon, born from the collision of an object with the earth, was much closer to the earth to his beginnings. In the time of the dinosaurs, the moon appeared slightly bigger in the sky and in 10 million years, it will be several hundred kilometers away.;3;3;is getting closer to the earth;stays at the same distance from the earth;is getting away from the earth;;
L;To be able to use natural uranium in a nuclear reactor or atomic bomb, you have to enrich it. What does this enrichment consist of?;It is necessary to increase the content of natural uranium in uranium-235 to be able to use it in nuclear reactors or atomic bombs. \n\nThe natural uranium consists essentially of uranium-238 (99.3%), and uranium-235 (0.7%). These are two isotopes of uranium that differ in their number of neutrons. They are both radioactive and unstable but with different periods of radioactivity. The period of uranium-238 is 4.5 billion years while that of uranium-235 is 700 billion years. It is this difference in period that accounts for the difference in the proportion of these two isotopes in natural uranium. \n\nOnly uranium-235 is easily fissile and can be used as a fuel in nuclear reactors and as an explosive in nuclear reactors. atomic bombs (A bombs). As its content is very low in natural uranium, it must be enriched with uranium-235 for use in nuclear reactors or atomic bombs. This enrichment should be 3-4% for nuclear reactors and 90% for atomic bombs.;3;2;Addition of materials to trigger the nuclear reaction;Increase its uranium-235 content;Increase its uranium-238 content;;
L;Uranium is the main element used as fuel in nuclear power plants. What other element is also used?;Plutonium-239 isotope is fissile and can be used, like uranium-235, for fuel in nuclear reactors and explosive in atomic bombs (A bombs). \n\nPlutonium-239 is widely generated in nuclear reactors from the capture of a neutron by uranium-238. \n\nThe enriched uranium used by nuclear power plants contains uranium-235 which is the fissile isotope that produces the reaction nuclear and uranium-238 which is not fissile. Although non-fissile, uranium-238, by capturing a neutron, transforms into uranium-239 and then beta radioactivity turns into neptunium-239 and then plutonium-239. \n\nAfter a series of mechanical and chemical operations it is therefore possible to recover the plutonium-239 from the spent fuel of the nuclear power station. The advantage of plutonium-239 is that it is itself fissile and can therefore be used as a nuclear power station fuel. This recycling of used fuel saves uranium, which is the primary source of nuclear fuel;3;3;Radium;Polonium;Plutonium;;
L ;As uranium, Plutonium-239 is a fuel used in nuclear reactors. How is it produced?;Plutonium-239 is widely generated in nuclear reactors from the capture of a neutron by uranium-238. Plutonium-239 isotope is fissile and, as uranium-235, can be used as fuel in nuclear reactors and explosive in atomic bombs (A bombs). \n\nThe enriched uranium used by nuclear power plants contains uranium-235 which is the fissile isotope that produces the reaction nuclear and uranium-238 which is not fissile. Although non-fissile, uranium-238, by capturing a neutron, transforms into uranium-239 and then beta radioactivity turns into neptunium-239 and then plutonium-239. \n\nAfter a series of mechanical and chemical operations it is therefore possible to recover the plutonium-239 from the spent fuel of the nuclear power station. The advantage of plutonium-239 is that it is itself fissile and can therefore be used as a nuclear power station fuel. This recycling of used fuel saves uranium, which is the primary source of nuclear fuel.;3;2;It is present in its natural state;It is generated in nuclear reactors from uranium-238;It is synthesized in plutonium plants;;
L;What isotope of plutonium is used as fuel in nuclear reactors?;Plutonium-239 isotope is fissile and can be used, like uranium-235, as fuel in nuclear reactors and explosive in atomic bombs (A bombs). \n\nPlutonium-239 is widely generated in nuclear reactors from the capture of a neutron by uranium-238. \n\nThe enriched uranium used by nuclear power plants contains uranium-235 which is the fissile isotope that produces the reaction nuclear and uranium-238 which is not fissile. Although non-fissile, uranium-238, by capturing a neutron, transforms into uranium-239 and then beta radioactivity turns into neptunium-239 and then plutonium-239. \n\nAfter a series of mechanical and chemical operations it is therefore possible to recover the plutonium-239 from the spent fuel of the nuclear power station. The advantage of plutonium-239 is that it is itself fissile and can therefore be used as a nuclear power station fuel. This recycling of used fuel saves uranium, which is the primary source of nuclear fuel.;4;2;plutonium-238;plutonium-239;plutonium-240;plutonium-241;
L;Which isotope of plutonium is used as a source of energy in some space probes?;Plutonium-238 isotope is used, thanks to its radioactivity, as a source of energy in some space probes. \n\nThe energy released by the radioactive decays of plutonium-238 allows space missions of long duration, when the remoteness of the sun no longer allows the solar panels to provide the required power or heat. Due to its short (87 years) and long radioactive half-life compared to a space mission, this radioelement continuously releases a significant heat which is then converted into electricity by thermocouples in RTG (Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator). \n\nUnfortunately, plutonium-238 is excessively expensive to manufacture. It is produced from neptunium-237 by neutron capture, with neptunium-237 being extracted from spent fuel from nuclear reactors. The production process consists of manufacturing neptunium-237 targets, irradiating these targets in a facility with a high neutron flux, and recovering plutonium-238 from targets irradiated with chemical treatments.;4;1;plutonium-238;plutonium-239;plutonium-240;plutonium-241;
L;Where does the energy of the sun come from?;The energy of the sun that allows heating and illuminating us comes from a continuous chain reaction of fusion of hydrogen nuclei into helium nuclei. \n\nAt first, the high pressure and temperature that ruled in the center of the sun allowed to initiate the reaction, then the energy released by the fusion can maintain the reaction and prevent the sun from collapsing on itself. \n\nWith the nuclear fusion, every second, the sun transforms 4 million tons of its mass into radiative energy, which must cross the sun layers to reach its surface and become light. \n\nThis process allows our star to shine for 4.5 billion years, and we must not be afraid that it will exhaust its fuel in the near future: its reserves should allow it to shine for another 4 to 5 billion years.;3;3;From radioactivity of unstable nuclei;From nuclear fission of unstable nuclei;From nuclear fusion of hydrogen nuclei into helium nuclei;;
L;Why do nuclear power plants use fission, not nuclear fusion?;There is no nuclear fusion power plant because it requires very large amount of energy to trigger the reaction due to the electrostatic repulsion that occurs between the 2 nuclei to be fused. \n\nIn the H bombs, which uses fusion, it is a fission bomb using uranium or plutonium that raises the temperature, so that the nuclear fusion can be triggered. But in a nuclear power plant, you can not afford to use a fission bomb to start the reactions! The whole difficulty of "civilian" nuclear fusion is to initiate the reaction while controlling it. This is why nuclear fusion has long been used in the military, but will not be used in the civilian field for several decades.;2;2;Because nuclear fusion needs deuterium that is difficult to find in its natural state;Because nuclear fusion requires very large amount of energy to trigger the reaction.;;;
L;What was the nickname given to the Higgs boson, particle eagerly awaited by physicists and finally detected on July 4, 2012;The Higgs boson, whose existence was theoretically predicted in 1964 by physicists Brout, Englert and Higgs, was detected on 4 July 2012 in the CERN LHC: it was nicknamed "the particle God". \n\nThe Higgs boson being the particle associated with the Higgs field, its detection allowed to experimentally verify the existence of this field. \n\nThe Higgs field is a field that bathes all the space and which explains why some particles have a mass (protons, neutrons, electrons ...) and others do not (photons). The reason is that the mass is not an intrinsic property of the particle but corresponds to the interaction energy of the particle with the Higgs field. Particles that interact strongly with the Higgs field have a large mass, while those that interact very little with the Higgs field have a very low mass, or even no mass at all. \n\nHiggs boson detection with expected characteristics, is a validation element essential to the theoretical structure of the Standard Model of Particle Physics.;4;3;The quantum particle;The unifying particle;The God particle;The golden particle;
L;What physical phenomenon, the Higgs boson, detected on July 4, 2012, did it explain?;The Higgs boson, whose existence was theoretically predicted in 1964 by physicists Brout, Englert and Higgs and was detected on July 4, 2012, helps to explain why some particles have a mass and others not. \n\nThe Higgs boson being the particle associated with the Higgs field, its detection allowed to verify experimentally the existence of this field. \n\nThe Higgs field is a field which bathes all the space and which explains why some particles have a mass (protons, neutrons, electrons ...) and others not (photons). The reason is that the mass is not an intrinsic property of the particle but corresponds to the interaction energy of the particle with the Higgs field. Particles that interact strongly with the Higgs field have a large mass, while those that interact very little with the Higgs field have a very low mass, or even no mass at all. \n\nHiggs boson detection with expected characteristics, is a validation element essential to the theoretical structure of the Standard Model of Particle Physics.;3;3;The strong interaction that explains the nucleon cohesion of a nucleus;The radioactivity phenomena related to the instability of the nuclei.;Why some particles have a mass and some do not.;;
L;In which physics laboratory was the Higgs boson detected on July 4, 2012?;The Higgs boson, whose existence was theoretically predicted in 1964 by physicists Brout, Englert and Higgs, was detected on 4 July 2012 in the CERN LHC on the French-Swiss border. \n\nSince the Higgs boson was the particle associated with the Higgs field, the idea was to create sufficiently large swirls in the Higgs field to make it appear, which required gigantic energies: this was obtained by sending 2 protons at very high speed against each other. \n\nThis Higgs boson detection with expected characteristics, is an element of validation essential to the theoretical structure of the Standard Model of particle physics: It allows in particular to explain why some particles have a mass and others do not.;2;1;At CERN, on the French-Swiss border;At Fermilab, in the United States;;;
L;Spin is an intrinsic quantum property of particles that can be an integer or a half-integer and that classifies particles into two types: fermions and bosons. What type has an integer spin?;Particles whose spin value is an integer are called bosons: the photon whose spin is 1 is therefore a boson. \n\nThe spin is an intrinsic property of the particle, just like mass or electric charge . It is a quantum property that has no equivalent in classical mechanics that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, that is to say to a rotation of the particle on itself. The theory provides, in agreement with experience, that the value of the spin can only be an integer or a half-integer. This led physicists to divide the elementary particles into 2 categories: \nThe fermions whose spin is half-integer: the electron whose spin is 1/2 is a fermion. \nBosons whose spin is entire: the photon whose spin is 1 is a boson. \n\nBosons are the elementary particles of interactions, that is virtual particles (having a very short life), which carry the forces. \n\nThe fermions are the elementary particles of matter: the electrons, the quarks that make up protons and neutrons are all fermions.;2;2;The fermions;The bosons;;;
L;Spin is an intrinsic quantum property of particles that can be an integer or a half integer and classifies particles into two types: fermions and bosons. What type has a half-integer spin?;Particles whose spin value is a half-integer are called fermions: the electron whose spin is 1/2 is therefore a fermion. \n\nThe spin is an intrinsic property of the particle, just like the mass or electric charge. It is a quantum property that has no equivalent in classical mechanics that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, that is to say to a rotation of the particle on itself. The theory provides, in agreement with experience, that the value of the spin can only be an integer or a half-integer. This led physicists to divide the elementary particles into 2 categories: \nThe fermions whose spin is half-integer: the electron whose spin is 1/2 is a fermion. \nBosons whose spin is entire: the photon whose spin is 1 is a boson. \n\nBosons are the elementary particles of interactions, that is virtual particles (having a very short life), which carry the forces. \n\nThe fermions are the elementary particles of matter: the electrons, the quarks that make up protons and neutrons are all fermions.;2;1;The fermions;The bosons;;;
L;Which physicist discovered the relation between electricity and magnetism?;Danish physicist Hans Christian Oersted, while preparing a montage intended for one of his courses, discovered in April 1820 that a magnetised needle is diverted in the vicinity of an electric current. \n\nHe published the July 21, 1820 his experimental results in a memoir and addressed it to all the learned societies of Europe. Ampere took cognizance of his results in September 1820 and developed the theory which would allow the emergence of electromagnetism.;4;1;Oersted;Ampère;Faraday;Coulomb;
L;Which physicist discovered magnetic induction?;British physicist Michael Faraday discovered magnetic induction in 1831: He observed that a current appears in an electric circuit placed in a variable magnetic field. This phenomenon occurs in the following two cases: \nThe magnetic field is produced by a solenoid and its variation is produced by opening the solenoid circuit. \nThe magnetic field is produced by a permanent magnet that is moved in front of the solenoid. electrical circuit. Faraday was the first to conceive intuitively the notion of magnetic field and materializes "magnetic lines of force" by iron filings.;4;3;Oersted;Ampère;Faraday;Coulomb;
L;What is the name of the physical phenomenon that shows that the quantum vacuum has a non-zero energy?;In 1948, Hendrik B. Casimir predicted that two parallel metallic plates placed in absolute vacuum, at a very short distance from each other, should attract each other. In 1997, this phenomenon was verified experimentally very precisely. This force of attraction originates from the energy of the vacuum. \n\nQuantum physics shows that the void is filled with quantum fields whose energy fluctuates in time. The fluctuation of the electromagnetic field, which is one of the quantum fields, takes the form of photons that appear and disappear randomly. These photons are characterized by their wavelength (their energy). \n\nInside the plate, only photons of wavelength equal to an integer multiple of the distance between the two plates can exist. There are fewer photons inside the plates than outside. The photon pressure exerted on the plates is therefore greater outside than inside.;4;2;Zeeman effect;Casimir effect;Tunnel effect;Compton effect;
L;Which physicist is the founder of electrodynamics and one of the fathers of electromagnetism?;French physicist, André Marie Ampère is the founder of electrodynamics and one of the fathers of electromagnetism. \n\nElectrodynamics describes the actions between electric currents, between an electric current and a magnet and between two magnets. \n\nAmpere is at the origin of magnetism theory of magnets imagining that it results from the action of micro currents circulating around each of their particles. \n\nWe paid him a fair tribute by giving his name to the unit of electric current intensity.;4;2;Mawell;Ampère;Faraday;Gauss;
L;Which physicist is the founder of electromagnetism?;British physicist, James Clerk Maxwell is the founder of electromagnetism, he paved the way for the upheavals that marked the physics of the early twentieth century. \n\nMaxwell unified the laws of electricity and magnetism known from his time (thanks to the works of Faraday, Ampère, Gauss) by mathematically formulating by only 4 equations the behavior of electric and magnetic fields.;4;3;Ampère;Faraday;Maxwell;Gauss;
L;After his discovery of electron, Thomson proposed an atom model. What name was given to this model?;After his discovery of electron in 1897, the British physicist Joseph John Thomson imagined an atom model called the model of "plum pudding" model in which the electrons (plums) move inside a diffuse soup positive charge (the pudding). \n\nThis model will be challenged later by Ernest Rutherford who will demonstrate that the positive charge is concentrated in a nucleus.;4;2;Cherry pie;Plum pudding;Plum pie;Cherry pudding;
L;Which physicist discovered the electron?;British physicist Joseph John Thomson discovered the electron in 1897, observing that cathode rays were deflected by an electric field and a magnetic field. \n\nThe observations of these deviations allowed him to draw the following conclusions: \nThe beam cathode is composed of negatively charged particles. \nThese particles are part of the atom, since their mass is only 1/2000 of the mass of the hydrogen atom. \nThese subatomic particles are found in all atoms , whatever the chemical element. \n\nThomson arrives at a bold conclusion: cathode rays are composed of "corpuscles" that come from inside the atoms of the cathode tube electrodes, which implies that the atoms are divisible. The "corpuscle" discovered by Thomson is the electron.;4;4;Rutherford;Chadwick;Bohr;Thomson;
L;What experiment did Rutherford demonstrate that the positively charged part of an atom is concentrated in a very small volume called a nucleus?;British physicist, Ernest RutherFord, following his "gold foil experiment" in 1911, establishes the existence of the atomic nucleus. \n\nHe proposes an atomic model consisting of a very small central core, carrying of a positive electric charge and in which concentrates almost all the mass, around which electrons turn in a volume mainly occupied by a vacuum. \n\nHis "gold foil experiment" consisted of bombarding thin sheets of gold by alpha particles, that is to say helium nuclei. Most of the particles are not deviated, which shows that the atom is essentially formed of vacuum, but the deviation of some proves the existence of a central nucleus, containing most of the mass and all the positive charge. .;4;2;Silver foil experiment;Gold foil experiment;Copper foil experiment;Lead foil experiment;
L;Who has established that the atom is formed of a central nucleus around which electrons turn in a volume occupied mainly of emptiness?;British physicist, Ernest RutherFord, following his "gold foil experiment" in 1911, establishes the existence of the atomic nucleus. \n\nHe proposes an atomic model consisting of a very small central core, carrying of a positive electric charge and in which concentrates almost all the mass, around which electrons turn in a volume mainly occupied by a vacuum. \n\nHis "gold foil experiment" consisted of bombarding thin sheets of gold by alpha particles, that is to say helium nuclei. Most of the particles are not deviated, which shows that the atom is essentially formed of vacuum, but the deviation of some proves the existence of a central nucleus, containing most of the mass and all the positive charge. .;4;1;Rutherford;Chadwick;Thomson;Dalton;
L;A conventional computer manipulates bits. What is the name of the information manipulated by a quantum computer?;A quantum computer does not handle bits like a conventional computer but qbits ("quantum bits"). \n\nThe qbit is based on a principle of quantum physics called the superposition principle. A quantum object that is a microscopic object such as an electron or a photon does not have a well-defined state but can be in several states at once called superimposed states. For example, an electron has a property called the spin that has a state "up" and a state "down" and the spin of the electron can be both in the state "up" and in the state "down ". \n\nBased on the principle of superposition, a qbit is not 0 or 1 but a superposition of 0 and 1. 3 qbits, used simultaneously, will have for values ??a superposition of 8 states: 000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101, 110, 111. 4 qbits will have for values ??a superposition of 16 states, ... \n\nA quantum computer has quantum gates able to handle these qbits. Thus, with 3 qbits it will be able to do parallel processing on the 8 superimposed states that these 3 qbits possess. A quantum computer can calculate much faster than a conventional computer: With 3 qbits, it will calculate 8 times faster than a 3 bits conventional computer, with 4 qbits, it will calculate 16 times faster than a 4 bits conventional computer. \n\nQuantum computers are today in 2018 only at the research stage at Google, Intel, IBM, Microsoft and actually exist only in the state of prototypes. It is not yet possible to produce them industrially because of the very nature of the quantum objects they use. These objects, in order to have superimposed states must exist in the form of waves and are therefore very sensitive to disturbances. This requires isolating them to protect them from radiation and working at very low temperatures, close to absolute zero, hence the impossibility today of producing them industrially.;4;4;ubit;mbit;pbit;qbit;
L;Will quantum computers be able to completely replace conventional computers?;Quantum computers, however, will never replace conventional computers because they will always be less versatile than the latter and it is on specific types of problems that they can make us benefit from their great computing powers. \n\nQuantum computers are today in 2018 only at the research stage at Google, Intel, IBM and actually exist only in the state of prototypes. It is not yet possible to produce them industrially because of the very nature of the quantum objects they use. These objects, in order to have superimposed states must exist in the form of waves and are therefore very sensitive to disturbances. This requires isolating them to protect them from radiation and working at very low temperatures, close to absolute zero, which makes it impossible today to produce them industrially. \n\nAn application that is very well adapted to computers quantum is cryptography. The algorithm used to decompose a number into prime factors can be implemented quite easily with a quantum computer. Since this is the algorithm used by RSA encryption, we can see that it will no longer be safe when quantum computers exist.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;The tunneling microscope allows "seeing" the atoms. What type is this microscope?;The Tunneling Microscope is a local probe microscope based on the "tunnel effect" phenomenon of quantum physics. Developed in 1981 by IBM researchers Gerd Binnig of Germany the Swiss Heinrich Rohrer, the tunneling microscope is based mainly on the quantum phenomenon (giving the name to this microscope) which describes the capacity of a quantum object to be able to cross a potential barrier, whatever its energy, even if it is too low. \n\nA tunneling microscope consists of two electrodes, one of which is shaped like a point and the other is the surface of the object to be studied. The tip-sample distance is of the order of a few angstroms. If a bias voltage is applied between the tip and the surface, the electrons have a non-zero probability of passing from one electrode to another and a tunnel current will circulate. \n\nThe principle of the experiment consists in moving the tip over the object to be studied (using piezoelectric ceramics) keeping the tunnel current constant by a servo device. Thus, the tip-sample distance remains constant and the recording of the vertical displacements of the tip then faithfully reproduces the topography of the surface. If the tip is sufficiently fine (micro-tip of a few angstroms), the observed relief can have the atomic resolution.;3;3;optical microscope;Electronic microscope;Local probe microscope;;
L;A microscope capable of "seeing" atoms uses a principle of quantum physics. What is this principle?;The Tunneling Microscope is a local probe microscope based on the "tunnel effect" phenomenon of quantum physics. Developed in 1981 by IBM researchers Gerd Binnig of Germany the Swiss Heinrich Rohrer, the tunneling microscope is based mainly on the quantum phenomenon (giving the name to this microscope) which describes the capacity of a quantum object to be able to cross a potential barrier, whatever its energy, even if it is too low. \n\nA tunneling microscope consists of two electrodes, one of which is shaped like a point and the other is the surface of the object to be studied. The tip-sample distance is of the order of a few angstroms. If a bias voltage is applied between the tip and the surface, the electrons have a non-zero probability of passing from one electrode to another and a tunnel current will circulate. \n\nThe principle of the experiment consists in moving the tip over the object to be studied (using piezoelectric ceramics) keeping the tunnel current constant by a servo device. Thus, the tip-sample distance remains constant and the recording of the vertical displacements of the tip then faithfully reproduces the topography of the surface. If the tip is sufficiently fine (micro-tip of a few angstroms), the observed relief can have the atomic resolution.;3;3;Superposition of states;Quantum entanglement;The tunnel effect;;
L;What is the number of elementary interactions (or fundamental forces) responsible for all the physical phenomena observed in the universe;Four elementary interactions are responsible for all the physical phenomena observed in the Universe, each manifesting itself by a force called fundamental force. These are: \n\nThe gravitation. It is responsible for attracting massive objects to each other. \nElectromagnetic interaction. It acts between the electrically charged particles and can be attractive or repulsive. Two particles with same-sign charges repel each other, while two particles with opposite sign charges attract each other. \nStrong interaction. It is the most powerful of the four fundamental forces. It is responsible for the cohesion of the atomic nuclei by linking together the quarks forming the nucleons (protons and neutrons) and by linking together the nucleons within the nucleus. \nThe weak interaction. It is responsible for beta radioactivity, and plays an important role in the nuclear fusion that occurs inside the stars.;4;3;Two;Three;Four;Five;
L ;What type of radioactivity plays an important role in the nuclear fusion that occurs inside the stars?;Beta+ decay occurs in fusion reactions of hydrogen nuclei into helium nuclei that take place inside stars. These reactions include the following steps: \n1- Transformation of a proton (hydrogen nucleus) into a neutron by beta decay\n2- Fusion of a proton and a neutron to produce a nucleus of deuterium\n3-  Fusion of two deuterium nuclei to produce the helium nucleus;4;3;Alpha radioactivity;Beta-  radioactivity;Beta+  radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;
L;The standard model is the theory describing all the elementary particles that make up the universe. What is the number of these elementary particles?;The standard model groups together the 18 elementary particles that make up the universe in one unique theory. These elementary particles are divided into two types: fermions and bosons. \n\nFermions (12 particles). \nThese are the elementary particles that make up matter. There are 2 main categories of fermions, the quarks (forming the protons and the neutrons) which are the most massive particles and the leptons (electron, muon, tau, neutrinos), which are lighter particles. \n\nBosons (6 particles). \nA boson is a particle that will act as a messenger to allow remote interaction between 2 particles of matter. Bosons include gauge bosons that are associated with fundamental forces and the Higgs boson that interacts with particles to give them their mass.;4;3;Ten;Fourteen;Eighteen;Twenty two;
L;What is the name given to the model of particle physics which is the theory describing all the elementary particles composing the universe?;The standard model groups together the 18 elementary particles that make up the universe in one unique theory. These elementary particles are divided into two types: fermions and bosons. \n\nFermions (12 particles). \nThese are the elementary particles that make up matter. There are 2 main categories of fermions, the quarks (forming the protons and the neutrons) which are the most massive particles and the leptons (electron, muon, tau, neutrinos), which are lighter particles. \n\nBosons (6 particles). \nA boson is a particle that will act as a messenger to allow remote interaction between 2 particles of matter. Bosons include gauge bosons that are associated with fundamental forces and the Higgs boson that interacts with particles to give them their mass.;4;1;Standard model;Basic model;Global model;Universal model;
L;Which stars have the longest life?;The most massive stars have a shorter life span than the smaller stars. \n\nAt the heart of the stars occur continuous fusion reactions of hydrogen nuclei into helium nuclei and the life span of a star therefore depends on the time taken to consume all its hydrogen fuel. \n\nEven if a massive star contains a lot of fuel, its central temperature will be higher than that of a star of less mass and the nuclear combustion reactions will be much faster and it will consume more fuel. Thus, a star like the sun will burn its central hydrogen (only 10% of its total mass) in 9 billion years. But a star of 10 solar masses will consume its reserves in only 30 million years, while a small star of 0.5 solar mass will remain 50 billion years.;2;2;The biggest stars;The smallest stars;;;
L;In astronomy, what is a white dwarf?;A white dwarf is the residue of the heart of a medium-sized star at the end of its life. Throughout the life of the star, its hydrogen atoms fuse to form helium. These reactions release a phenomenal energy to the outside which prevents it from collapsing on itself. \n\nThen, when the star has exhausted all its hydrogen, it is the helium that will merge to give carbon and the even greater energy produced by this fusion will swell the star that will become a red giant. \n\nThen, in the red giant when all the helium has turned into carbon, the heart of the star collapses, the star is transformed into a planetary nebula, and its heart gradually becomes a white dwarf which, by cooling, becomes an invisible black dwarf.;3;3;A small, dimly lit star;A star at the beginning of life;A star at the end of life;;
L;Blue supergiants stars at the end of their life become:;The life of a star whose mass is at least 30 times that of the sun, which is called a blue supergiant, ends in an explosion leaving a residue so dense that its gravitational attraction prevents even light passing too close to escape. It is called a black hole. \n\nThe exploding star is a supernova and it is at this moment that the elements heavier than iron that were not formed in the heart of the star are created. These are different metals such as nickel, copper, zinc, to the heavier nuclei, such as uranium.;3;3;white dwarfs;neutron stars;black holes;;
L;Blue giant stars at the end of their life become:;The life of a star whose mass reaches 10 times that of the sun, which is called a blue giant, ends with an explosion leaving a very dense residue called a neutron star. \n\nIf the neutron star turns very fast on itself and has a powerful magnetic field, it will emit radiation in the direction of its magnetic axis. It is then called a pulsar.;3;2;white dwarfs;neutron stars;black holes;;
L;Where have been created almost all the chemical elements found on earth?;It is in the stars, thanks to the nuclear fusion reactions, that almost all the chemical elements existing on earth have been formed. First of all, hydrogen, which is the gas present during the formation of the star, merges to form helium. \n\nThen, when all the hydrogen has been consumed, it is the helium that merges to produce carbon. \n\nThen, when There is no more helium, the fusion continues in the most massive stars and new elements appear and then merge again. This explains how all the elements found on earth are created: oxygen, aluminum, sulfur, chlorine, potassium, calcium, iron, copper, tin, mercury, lead ... up to uranium.;3;2;In the universe, during the primordial nucleosynthesis, one minute after the big bang;In the massive stars where nuclear fusion reactions take place;In interstellar space, thanks to collisions occurring within molecular clouds;;
L;What is the name given to a star in its primitive stage?;Stars are born in clouds of gas and dust present in interstellar space through contractions due to gravitation. Under the action of gravity the cloud particles will attract each other and a mass of matter will form in its center. This mass of matter forms a protostar that is not yet stable and continues to collapse on itself. \n\nWhen the temperature reaches 10 million degrees, the hydrogen atoms will fuse to become helium . This very powerful thermonuclear reaction will release phenomenal energy to the outside and the pressure it generates will compensate for the gravity which prevents it from collapsing on itself. The star is born, it will live on its hydrogen reserves, whose transformation into helium gives it the energy necessary for balancing collapse due to gravitation;4;3;nebula;Pre-star;protostar;dwarf star;
L;Our galaxy is called the Milky Way. What is the name of the galaxy closest to the Milky Way?;The closest known galaxy to the Milky Way (our galaxy) is the Canis major dwarf galaxy, it is located only 42 000 light-years away from the galactic center. \n\n Canis major dwarf galaxy is a very small galaxy and would be being absorbed by the Milky Way. The largest galaxy (spiral galaxy) galaxy closest to the Milky Way is the Andromeda galaxy and is located about 2.5 million light-years away.;4;1;Canis major dwarf galaxy;Sagittarius Dwarf galaxy;Andromeda galaxy;Cassiopeia galaxy;
L;Where is our solar system in the Milky Way?;The Solar System is located on the Milky Way periphery (spiral galaxy), in one of the spiral arms called Orion's Arm. \n\nIt is located about 27 000 light-years from the galactic center around which it rotates at a speed of 230 km / s.;2;2;Near the galactic center;At the periphery of the galaxy;;;
L;Which galaxy type is Milky Way (our galaxy)?;The Milky Way is precisely a barred spiral galaxy.\n\nThe center of the galaxy, crossed by the star bar, is called galactic bulb and contains a high density of stars. In its center is Sagittarius A *, a supermassive black hole of more than four million solar masses. \n\nThe whole Milky Way is 100,000 light-years in diameter and contains about 250 billion stars.;3;2;elliptical galaxy;spiral galaxy;irregular galaxy;;
L;A group of stars is called a galaxy. A group of galaxies is called a galaxy cluster. A cluster of galaxy clusters is called a supercluster. Are there cluster of superclusters?;The galaxies (group of stars) are themselves grouped into clouds of galaxies called galaxy clusters. \n\nThe galaxy clusters are grouped together in superclusters. On the other hand, there are no cluster of superclusters. Nevertheless, there are some kind of filaments between the superclusters. The superamas connected by these filaments are called "great walls".;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;How many planets are there in the solar system?;The solar system has eight planets that revolve around the sun. The four closest to the sun are telluric (rocky), and the four farthest are gaseous. \n\nThe four telluric planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. These are the closest to the sun and the smaller ones. \n\nThe four gaseous planets are Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. They are giant planets which have captured the lightest gases such as hydrogen or helium and have become gaseous planets. \n\nAn asteroid belt is between telluric planets and gaseous planets.;4;2;Six;Eight;Ten;Twelve;
L;Why is our solar system flat?;The solar system is flat because of the rotation of the nebula from which it was formed. \n\nThe solar system was formed by the contraction and the collapse of a nebula following the explosion of a nearby star, a supernova. During the collapse of the nebula, which was slightly rotated on itself, the masses of gas and dust very far from the axis of rotation approached each other and, by preserving the kinetic momentum, their velocity strongly increased. \n\nThe speed of rotation became such that the nebula literally flattened perpendicular to the axis of rotation, causing the formation of a disk. \n\nMost of the mass has agglomerated in the center of the disc to form the sun and the matter dust farther away from the center are drawn and glued together to form the planets. \n nThis explains why today, all the planets rotate in the same plane, called "ecliptic plane".;3;1;Because of the rotation of the nebula from which it was formed;Because all the solar system planets come from the same block of matter;Because gravitational attraction between planets keeps them on the same orbital plane;;
L;What other name is used to designate neutron stars?;A neutron star is the very dense residue left after the explosion of a large blue giant star that occurs at the end of its life. \ n\nIf the neutron star is spinning very fast on itself and has a strong magnetic field, it will emit radiation in the direction of its magnetic axis. It is then called a pulsar. ;4;2;white dwarf star;pulsar;black hole;giant red star;
L;What is the closest star to the sun?;The closest star to the sun is Proxima Centauri. \n\nThis is a red dwarf with a diameter of about 1 / 7th of that of our sun. It is located about 4.24 light-years from the sun, about 270,000 times the average earth-sun distance. \n\nIt was discovered only in 1915 because, as a red dwarf, it is perfectly invisible to the naked eye (a nearby star is not necessarily the most visible).;4;3;Syrius;Procyon;Proxima Centauri;Luyten's Star;
L;What type of star is the sun?;The sun is a medium-sized star, a yellow dwarf. This type of star represents about 10% of the Milky Way. Its surface temperature is about 6000 K and it shines bright yellow, almost white. \n\nThe sun shines for 4.6 billion years and will shine another 5 billion more. Then, it will swell into a red giant, form a planetary nebula and contract as a white dwarf star, which, on cooling, will become a black dwarf.;4;3;Brown dwarf;Red dwarf;Yellow dwarf;White dwarf;
L;Which of these 4 types of stars is a "failed" star?;A brown dwarf is a "failed" star. \n\nIts mass is between those of small stars and big planets. It needs at least 0.08 solar mass for a proto-star to initiate thermonuclear reactions and become a true star. Brown dwarfs are not massive enough to start these reactions.;4;1;Brown dwarf;Red dwarf;Yellow dwarf;White dwarf;
L;How old is the sun?;The sun was formed about 4.6 billion years ago. \n\nIn its heart, where the temperature is 15 million degrees, hydrogen fuses into helium. The sun will not be eternal. In about 5 billion years, it will have exhausted its hydrogen reserves. Helium will become its new source of fuel and the sun will become a red giant, two hundred times larger than today. Besides, life will probably have disappeared long time before on earth.;4;2;2.6 billion years;4.6 billion years;6.6 billion years;8.6 billion years;
L;how was the moon created?;The moon was created 40 to 50 million years after the solar system formation following the collision between the earth with a huge asteroid. \n\nThe shock is gigantic and returns billions of tons of debris in the space forming a gigantic cloud. These debris will fall back on themselves and, under the effect of gravitation, agglomerate to give birth to the moon. This collision rocked the axis of our planet by 23 °. Like the earth and the other planets, it undergoes multiple bombings, which give it its present face;3;3;Material ejected into space by the rapid rotation of the earth;Small planet that the gravity of the earth has captured;Shock of the earth with a huge asteroid;;
L;How is the earth protected from the solar wind emitted by the sun?;The earth's magnetic field, called the magnetosphere, is created by the convection movements of molten iron in the earth's core. It protects the earth, like a shield, from the excesses of the solar wind, a flow of charged particles ejected by the sun. \n\nIn fact, when these particles approach the earth, they are deflected by its field magnetic and wrap around the field lines without reaching the earth. \n\nalthoughthese particles cannot in cross the earth's magnetic field, sometimes they can reach the poles following the lines of field that converge there. By striking the earth's atmosphere at the poles, these particles "excite" molecules in the atmosphere that emit light. These are the "polar auroras", with their pink or green drapes, which are visible only near the polar circle.;2;2;Thanks to the ozone layer in the atmosphere;Thanks to the earth's magnetic field;;;
L;What type of sun radiation does the ozone layer protect us from?;The ozone layer is the earth's stratosphere layer that lies between 20 and 50 km above sea level. It is characterized by a concentration of ozone proportionally greater than in the other atmosphere layers. \n\nIt has the particularity of absorbing most of the sun ultraviolet radiation ( UVB and UVC)  that are harmful for life. For humans, by altering DNA, these rays can cause cancer and for plants reduce photosynthesis and growth. \n\nIn the 1980s, scientists discovered that the amount of ozone was decreasing dangerously with the appearance of holes in the ozone layer above the poles. After analysis, it turned out that this problem was due to the use of CFC gases in certain human activities such as refrigeration systems or aerosol cans. Following the ban on the use of these gases, the holes observed in the ozone layers are now being absorbed and should disappear in the coming decades.;4;2;Infrared rays;Ultraviolet rays;X-rays;Gamma rays;
L;Why did life first appear in oceans and not out of the water?;Life, with the first simple cells without nuclei, called prokaryotic cells, appeared in the oceans 3.8 billion years ago.\n\n At that time, life outside the oceans was impossible because the atmosphere, called the primitive atmosphere, did not contain oxygen and therefore did not have an ozone layer whose action is to stop the sun's harmful ultraviolet rays for life. In the ocean, the ultraviolet rays of the sun were stopped by water. \n\nWhen cells were able to perform photosynthesis, 3 billion years ago, the atmosphere began to acquire its oxygen. Thanks to photosynthesis, cells capture sunlight and carbon dioxide and release oxygen in the atmosphere. Under the action of ultraviolet rays, ozone could be created from oxygen. An ozone layer started to be created in the stratosphere forming a shield against the ultraviolet rays of the sun. \n\n500 million years ago, the atmosphere was filled with oxygen and had an ozone layer: first terrestrial plants appeared.;3;3;Because the earth was bombarded by meteorites;Because at the beginning of its formation the earth did not have an atmosphere;Because the primitive atmosphere did not contain oxygen;;
L;The earth primitive atmosphere did not contain oxygen. How did oxygen come next?;Thanks to the photosynthesis executed by the cells that the oxygen could appear in the atmosphere. \n\nIn fact, it is when cells were able to carry out photosynthesis, 3 billion years ago. that the atmosphere began to acquire its oxygen. By photosynthesis, cells capture sunlight and carbon dioxide and release oxygen in the atmosphere. Under the action of ultraviolet rays, ozone could be created from oxygen. An ozone layer started to be created in the stratosphere forming a shield against the ultraviolet rays of the sun. \n\n500 million years ago, the atmosphere was filled with oxygen and had an ozone layer: first terrestrial plants appeared.;2;1;Thanks to the photosynthesis executed by the cells;Thanks to the action of cosmic rays on water molecules;;;
L;When life first appear on earth?;Life, with the first single cells without nuclei, called prokaryotic cells, appeared in the oceans 3.8 billion years ago. \n\nThe first cells having a nucleus containing DNA, called  eukaryotic cells appeared 2.2 billion years ago. \n\n 1.2 billion years ago, the first multicellular eukaryotes appeared, but these were still very simple organisms, such as red algae. It took about 700 million years for the first marine animals to appear, which were soon followed by increasingly complex organisms. \n\nThen, thanks to the aquatic plant respiration, the atmosphere is filled of oxygen and has an ozone layer that protects from the sun's ultraviolet rays. Life will be able to get out of the water. Then will appear: \n440 million years ago: The first terrestrial plants \n400 million years ago: The insects \n370 million years ago: The trees \n230 million years ago: The dinosaurs \n220 million years ago: The first mammals \n7 million years ago: The hominids \n4 million years ago: Australopithecines \n3 million years ago: The human race (Homo) \n200,000 years ago: homo sapiens;4;1;3.8 billion years ago;380 million years ago;38 million years ago;3.8 million years ago;
L;The zodiac constellations are:;The zodiac constellations  are the constellations located in the area of ??the celestial sphere where the sun is moving. \n\nThe "zodiac" term comes from a Greek word meaning "circle of small animals" because the zodiac constellations are often animals (ram, fish, lion ...). \n\nFor astrologers who write horoscopes, a person born when the Sun appears in a given constellation (for example, Aries, between 21 March and April 20) will belong to this astrological sign. Astrologers recognize the following 12 zodiac constellations: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Serpent, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. From an astronomical point of view, the sun passes through a thirteenth constellation located between Scorpio and Sagittarius: the serpentine (Ophiuchus). The zodiac, for astronomers, is then not the same as that of astrologers;4;1;The constellations crossed by the sun in its apparent movement around the earth.;The constellations with the brightest stars;The constellations visible in the northern hemisphere;The constellations visible in the southern hemisphere;
L;How old was Albert Einstein when he published his theory of special relativity.;Albert Einstein was only 26 years old when he published his theory of special relativity in 1905, stirring up the entire scientific community. \n\nEinstein was working since 1902 in the Federal Office of Intellectual Property in Berne, Switzerland. Einstein held that position in the administration when he would have preferred to devote himself to research, continued to train himself and thought of ideas that would revolutionize physics.;4;2;20 years;26 years;32 years;38 years;
L;What is the closest species to humans?;The chimpanzee is the closest species to humans and shares with him 98.8% of its genes. \n\nMan shares a recent common ancestor with the Chimpanzee who is neither a chimpanzee nor a man since these two species have evolved since the divergence of the lineage of chimpanzees and man appeared about 7 million years ago.;4;3;Gorilla;Orangutan;Chimpanzee;Gibbon;
L;The molecular clock is a method used to:;The molecular clock is a calculation made by geneticists to determine the separation between two species having a common ancestor. The clock is based on the number of mutations detected in the DNA of a subject A relative to a subject B. By determining at what rate the mutations take place, geneticists can estimate the time spent since the separation of the two species. A and B. \n\nUsing this method of calculation, it has been determined that the chimpanzee and human lineages separated about 7 million years ago.;2;1;Determine when the separation occurred between two species with a common ancestor;Estimate the rate of increase in the life span of the human species;;;
L;Homo sapien is the first direct representative of our species. When did he appear on earth;Homo sapiens, of the genus Homo, are our direct representatives that appeared on Earth 200,000 years ago. \n\nThey were originally small groups of people in East Africa. They gradually multiplied, and about 100,000 years ago went on to conquer the world. Today we are more than 7 billion Homo sapiens to descend from these small groups who left the African savannah.;4;4;5 million years ago;1 million years ago;500,000 years ago;200,000 years ago;
L;From which continent did the first human species originate?;The genera Homo and Australopithecus make up the human lineage that represents all living beings descended from the last common ancestor of man with his closest relative, the chimpanzee. \n\nThe Australopithecus appeared in Africa about 4 million years ago where they lived and then disappeared 1 million years ago. The genus Homo includes several species: Homo Habilis, Homo Erectus and Homo sapiens which is our direct representative and the only species of Homo still alive. \n\nAs Australopithecus, the Homo Habilis , the oldest species of the genus Homo, appeared in Africa 2.5 million years ago. It is for this reason that Africa has been nicknamed the "cradle of humanity". It is Homo Erectus that will first leave Africa to join Europe and Asia. In Europe, a gradual evolution will give birth to the Neanderthal Homo sapiens (Neanderthal Man), while in Asia the Homo sapiens sapiens (Cro-Magnon Man) is appearing. \n\nHomo sapiens sapiens migrates to Europe about 50,000 years ago where he cohabits with the group of Neanderthal Homo sapiens until their disappearance 35,000 years ago. From Europe Homo sapiens sapiens will conquer the world. Homo sapiens sapiens is our direct ancestor.;4;2;Europe;Africa;Asia;America;
L;Which of these characters is specific to "great apes" compared to other primates?;All primates share common characters including one thumb opposable to other fingers of the hand, flat nails and orbits in front (promoting binocular vision). \n\nThe great apes (Gibon, Gorilla, Orangutan, Chimpanzee, Man ), belonging to the order of primates, have all these characters, and are further characterized by the absence of tail and the at least partial practice of bipedalism.;4;1;No tail;Inches opposable to other fingers of the hand;flat nails;front orbits;
L;What is the most abundant chemical element in the Earth's crust?;The earth's crust consists of rocks made of mineral assemblages and each mineral is itself composed of one or more chemical elements. \n\nThe 12 most abundant chemical elements in the minerals found in the Earth's layer are the following: \nOxygen (O): 46.5% \nSilicon (Si): 28% \nAluminum (Al): 8% \nIron (Fe): 5% \nCelcium (Ca): 3.5% \nSodium ( Na): 3% \ nPotassium (K): 2.5% \ nMagnesium (Mg): 2%;4;3;Calcium;Silicon;Oxygen;Aluminum;
L;What is the most abundant mineral type in the Earth's crust?;Since oxygen and silicon are the two most abundant elements of the earth's crust, the majority of minerals are silicates, ie chemical compounds formed by silicon and oxygen tetrahedra (SiO4) added together of aluminum, magnesium, iron, calcium, potassium, sodium and other elements. \n\nFeldspars are the most abundant silicate minerals;3;3;carbonates;sulphates;silicates;;
L;Which of these two human species is our direct ancestor?;The Cro-Magnon man is the direct ancestor of modern man. \n\nThe Cro-Magnon man is a Homo sapiens sapiens while the Neanderthal man is a Homo sapiens neandertalensis, they belong to two distinct groups of Homo sapiens. \n\nThe Homo genus includes several species as Homo Habilis, Homo Erectus and Homo sapiens. \ n\nHomo Habilis is the the oldest species of the Homo genus, it appeared in Africa 2.5 million years ago. \n\n Homo Erectus first left Africa to join Europe and Asia. In Europe, a gradual evolution gives rise to Homo sapiens neandertalensis (Neanderthal Man), while in Asia the Homo sapiens sapiens (Cro-Magnon Man) appears. \n\nHomo sapiens sapiens migrates to Europe between 60 000 and 40 000 years ago where he joined and coexisted with the Homo sapiens neandertalensis until their disappearance 35 000 years ago. From Europe Homo sapiens sapiens will conquer the world.;2;1;The Cro-Magnon man;The Neanderthal man;;;
L;Which of these two human species came first to Europe?;The Neanderthal man first arrived in Europe. \n\nThe Cro-Magnon man is a Homo sapiens sapiens while the Neanderthal man is a Homo sapiens neandertalensis, they belong to two distinct groups Homo sapiens. \n\nThe Homo genus includes several species as Homo Habilis, Homo Erectus and Homo sapiens. \n\nHomo Habilis is the oldest species of the genus Homo it appeared in Africa 2.5 million years ago. \n\nHomo Erectus first left Africa to join Europe and Asia. In Europe, a gradual evolution gives rise to Homo sapiens neandertalensis (Neanderthal Man), while in Asia the Homo sapiens sapiens (Cro-Magnon Man) apperas. \n\nHomo sapiens sapiens migrates to Europe between 60 000 and 40 000 years ago where he joined and coexisted with the Homo sapiens neandertalensis until their disappearance 35 000 years ago. From Europe Homo sapiens sapiens will conquer the world.;2;2;The Cro-Magnon man;The Neanderthal man;;;
L;Who, by explaning the Brownian motion, has demonstrated the existence of atoms?;In 1905, Einstein, in giving an explanation of the Brownian motion, brings a proof of the existence of atoms. \n\nIndeed, at that time, although most scientists admitted the existence of atoms, many still wondered whether these tiny bits of matter were a view of the mind or a physical reality. \n\n The Brownian movement, so called in honor of the naturalist Robert Brown, who first brought it to light, is the disorderly movement of fine particles suspended in a liquid. This movement can be explained if we assume that matter is made of atoms. Indeed, these particles that we observe collide with billions of atoms of the liquid and bounce on them each time, as when two balls of billiards collide. Very quickly, calculations were made and the movements of particles, becoming predictable, proved the existence of atoms.;4;3;Thompson;Rutherford;Einstein;Bohr;
L;Which Greek philosopher is the founder of the atomist theory?;The word atom comes from the Greek "a-tomos" and means "non-breaking". Although this notion was invented by Leucippe in 420 BC, the true founder of the atomist theory is his disciple Democritus (460-370 BC). \n\nFor Democritus, matter is made of tiny ( therefore invisible) non-breaking particles, all made of the same substance.;4;2;Aristote;Démocrite;Platon;Ptolémée;
L;Which physicist discovered the neutron?;In 1932, James Chadwick, Rutherford's assistant at that time, discovered the neutron by repeating and interpreting an experiment that was made before by Bothe and Becker in 1930. \n\nBy bombarding beryllium with alpha particles, these physicists produced a very penetrating Neutral radiation which was interpreted as a gamma radiation. The Joliot-Curie redo the same experiment and confirm the phenomenon while preserving the same interpretation. \n\nBy contrast, James Chadwick, by a rigorous analysis of the recoil of the nuclei bombarded by this radiation, discovered that it is due to a neutral particle, with a mass close to that of the proton. He called it neutron and received the Nobel Prize in 1935 for this capital discovery.;4;3;Thompson;Rutherford;Chadwick;Bohr;
L;Which physicist proposed an atom model for explaining the emission and absorption spectra of atoms?;For explaining the emission and absorption spectra of atoms, that is to say the fact that an atom can emit and absorb only radiation having specific wavelengths, Niels Bohr imagines in 1913 a new atomic model on the basis of Rutherford planetary model. \n\nThe orbits of the electrons are not any but "quantified". Only some specific orbits are allowed. It is only when it jumps from one orbit to another that it can emit (or absorb) light.;4;3;Rutherford;Planck;Bohr;Einstein;
L;Are the electrostatic force and the magnetic force of the same nature?;The electrostatic force and the electromagnetic force are two forces of the same nature called electromagnetic interaction. The electromagnetic interaction is one of the four elementary interactions that are responsible for all the physical phenomena observed in the Universe, the other three being gravitation, strong interaction and weak interaction. \n\nThe electrostatic force and the force electromagnetism being both forces acting on electric charges, they are necessarily linked. It is Einstein's theory of special relativity that demonstated that these two forces are of the same nature, the magnetic force being only a relativistic manifestation of the electrostatic force.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Why are the 4 planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars) closest to the sun the smallest and most rocky?;The planets of the solar system were formed by the accretion, that is to say the agglomeration of dust matter and gas located in a nebula after the explosion of a nearby star, a supernova. \n\nThe areas closest to the sun being the hottest, only materials that can remain solid at this temperature (such as silicates and metals such as iron and nickel) have remained there while volatile materials such as water and gases like hydrogen and helium have moved away from the sun. As these solids are rather rare in the nebula, most of it consisting of hydrogen and helium, the planets formed near the sun remained small and rocky. These are the four terrestrial planets: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. \n\nOn the contrary, farther away from the solar system in formation, it was cold enough for water and other compounds to be solid and able to agglomerate. The distant planets of the sun then captured the lighter gases such as hydrogen and helium. These gases being very abundant in the nebula, these planets have become giant planets and are mostly formed of hydrogen and helium. These are the four gaseous planets: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.;2;1;Because they were formed by the agglomeration of solids which were closest to the sun and less abundant than gases such as hydrogen and helium;They were not smaller than the others during their formation, they lost their afterwards mass following meteorite bombardments;;;
L;Why are the four planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune) the furthest away from the sun the largest and gaseous?;The planets of the solar system were formed by the accretion, that is to say the agglomeration of dust matter and gas located in a nebula after the explosion of a nearby star, a supernova. \n\nThe areas closest to the sun being the hottest, only materials that can remain solid at this temperature (such as silicates and metals such as iron and nickel) have remained there while volatile materials such as water and gases like hydrogen and helium have moved away from the sun. As these solids are rather rare in the nebula, most of it consisting of hydrogen and helium, the planets formed near the sun remained small and rocky. These are the four terrestrial planets: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. \n\nOn the contrary, farther away from the solar system in formation, it was cold enough for water and other compounds to be solid and able to agglomerate. The distant planets of the sun then captured the lighter gases such as hydrogen and helium. These gases being very abundant in the nebula, these planets have become giant planets and are mostly formed of hydrogen and helium. These are the four gaseous planets: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.;2;2;They were not bigger than the others during the solar system formation, the planets close to the sun lost their mass afterwards due to meteorite bombardments.;Because they have captured during their formation gases such as hydrogen and helium that were very abundant and too light to stay close to the sun;;;
L;Why do the planets turn in the same direction around the sun?;The solar system was initially a nebula, that is to say a cloud of gas and dust, which was moving slowly on itself. \n\nThe gravitation makes this nebula will "fall" on itself: it condenses and forms a denser zone in the center. This zone will give birth to the Sun. In condensing, the nebula flattens out to form a disk, because of the stronger centrifugal forces at the equator than on the poles. Around the Sun, the disc of gas and dust is transformed into small grains dust then coarse grains, blocks and finally planets. \n\nSo the planets are all in the same plane (the plane of the disc), and they all turn in the same direction around the Sun, because this sense is the sense of rotation of the nebula that gave birth to them. \n\nThey also turn on themselves, and usually in the same direction, but not always this time. It can happen that disturbances make the planet tilt over its axis. Venus is in this case, and Uranus is in the process of tipping. In both cases, this change is later than their formation.;2;1;Because it is the direction of rotation of the nebula where they were created;The attraction forces of the planets make them go in the same direction;;;
L;Why are all the planets in the solar system rotating?;The solar system was initially a nebula, that is to say a cloud of gas and dust, which was moving slowly on itself. \n\nButting on itself, by conservation of kinetic moment, the nebula accelerated and took the form of a disc. It gave birth to the sun in its center then to the planets in rotation around it. \n\nThe planets were formed by phenomenon of accretion, that is to say by the agglomeration of matter. By the force of gravitation, the larger and larger the planetoid, the more it attracted large blocks of matter, until it released its orbit from all matter. Those responsible for the rotation of the planets on itself are the successive shocks of these boulders. When two billiard balls collide (other than in their respective centers), the two balls begin to spin for a while on itself. It is the same for the planets, except that the absence of friction makes that this movement does not stop. \n\nThe vast majority of the planets of the solar system rotate in the same direction, that of rotation of the solar system, called prograde (counterclockwise when viewed by their north pole). It can nevertheless happen that disturbances make the planet tilt over its axis. Venus is in this case, and Uranus is in the process of tipping. In both cases, this change is later than their formation.;2;2;Action of cosmic rays on the magnetic field of planets caused their rotation;The shocks between the different blocks of matter during their formation caused their rotation;;;
L;What is the planet of the solar system closest to the sun?;The closest planet to the sun is Mercury. \n\nThe solar system includes eight planets that revolve around the sun. The four closest to the sun are telluric, that is, rocky, and the four farthest are gaseous. \n\nThe four telluric planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. These are the closest to the sun and the smaller ones. \n\nThe four gaseous planets are Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. These are the largest planets, called giant planets.;4;3;Venus;Neptune;Mercury;Uranus;
L;What is the planet of the solar system farthest from the sun?;The planet farthest from the sun is Neptune.\n\nThe solar system includes eight planets that revolve around the sun. The four closest to the sun are telluric, that is, rocky, and the four farthest are gaseous. \n\nThe four telluric planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. These are the closest to the sun and the smaller ones. \n\nThe four gaseous planets are Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. These are the largest planets, called giant planets.;4;2;Venus;Neptune;Mercury;Uranus;
L;The solar system has an asteroid belt. Where is located?;An asteroid belt is located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, it separates the 4 telluric or rocky planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars) of the 4 gaseous planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune) of the solar system. \n\nAsteroids formed at the same time as the planets, they are debris of failed stars that have not been absorbed by the planets.;3;2;Between the earth and Mars;Between Mars and Jupiter;Beyond Neptune, the planet farthest from the sun;;
L;Who paved the way for quantum physics in 1900 with his discovery of quanta of energy?;In 1900, Max Planck, a German physicist, tries to find in a totally empirical way the mathematical formula for understanding the radiation of the black body. \n\nHe discovers then that the exchanges between matter and energy, in the form of electromagnetic radiation , are carried out in the form of energy packets of value E = hf, f being the frequency and h the coefficient of proportionality, found empirically, between the packet or quanta of energy and the frequency of the radiation. h is called the "Planck constant". \n\nWith this formula, we can understand that the more we heat a body, that is to say the more we increase its internal energy, the more it can emit radiation at high frequencies. Max Planck, in explaining the radiation of the black body, opened a door to a new physics called quantum physics. He will get, for this discovery, the Nobel Prize for physics in 1918.;4;2;Ludwig Boltzmann;Max Planck;Albert Einstein;Niels Bohr;
L;Which physicist discovered in 1923 the wave nature of the electron?;By analogy with the photon, the French physicist Louis de Broglie issued in 1923 the hypothesis that the electron, like the photon, should behave both as wave and corpuscle. \n\nFor Louis de Broglie, this wave-corpuscule duality was to apply to all particles with a wavelength of value h / mv. \n\nThe wave nature of the electron announced by de Broglie was verified by the experiment carried out in 1927 by Davisson and Germer . By bombarding a nickel crystal with electrons, they observed diffraction patterns as de Broglie had predicted, which confirmed the wave nature of the electrons. In addition, the measured wavelength corresponded to that predicted.;4;4;Niels Bohr;Albert Einstein;Erwin Schrödinger;Louis de Broglie;
L;Why did Louis de Brogie win the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1929?;Louis de Brogie won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1929 for his discovery of the wave nature of the electron. By analogy with the photon, the French physicist Louis de Broglie thought in 1923 that the electron , like the photon, should behave both as wave and corpuscle. \n\nFor Louis de Broglie, this wave-particle duality should apply to all particles with a wavelength of value h / mv. \n\nThe wave nature of the electron announced by de Broglie was verified by the experiment carried out in 1927 by Davisson and Germer. By bombarding a nickel crystal with electrons, they observed diffraction patterns as de Broglie had predicted, which confirmed the wave nature of the electrons. In addition, the measured wavelength corresponded to that predicted.;4;3;His discovery of energy quanta;His explanation of the photoelectric effect;His discovery of the wave nature of the electron;His description of the atomic model;
L;Why did Niels Bohr win the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922?;Niels Bohr was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922 for his description of the atom that explained the emission and absorption atom spectra. In his atomic model, electrons cannot have any orbit. Only some orbits are allowed, each one corresponding to a different energy for the electron. \n\nWhenever an electron goes from an upper to a lower orbit, a photon is emitted taking away the energy difference between the orbits. Thus, only some specific wavelengths can be emitted. \n\nA photon can be absorbed by the atom if it has exactly the energy necessary to pass an electron to an orbital of stronger energy.;4;4;His discovery of energy quanta;His explanation of the photoelectric effect;His discovery of the wave nature of the electron;His description of the atomic model;
L;Which physicist said about quantum physics: "Anyone who is not shocked by quantum theory, has not understood it"?;"Anyone who is not shocked by quantum theory, has not understood it" \n\nThis quote from Niels Bohr who is himself one of the founding fathers of quantum mechanics shows how much the laws of this new physics quantum that govern the behavior of particles at the atomic scale are much more difficult to grasp than those of classical physics and intuitively difficult to conceive.;4;2;Einstein;Bohr;Heisenberg;Schrödinger;
L;What is the name of the physical phenomenon of division of some atomic spectral lines into several other lines when it is placed in a magnetic field?;When an atom is placed in a magnetic field, its spectral lines are separated into several other lines. This phenomenon, called the Zeeman effect, was discovered in 1902 by the Dutch physicist Pieter Zeeman. \n\nIn an atom, the energy levels of the electrons are discretized. The spectral lines of an atom are linked to the frequencies emitted or absorbed when an electron passes from one level of energy to another. \n\nThe electrons in an atom are distributed in n different layers (n = 1, 2, 3 ...), each layer is composed of one or more sub-layers called s, p, d, f, .. and each sub-layer is itself composed of one or more atomic orbitals. Each atomic orbital is characterized by a kinetic momentum and a magnetic moment whose orientation with respect to the nucleus of the atom is defined by the magnetic quantum number m of the electron. \n\nWithout magnetic field, the electron orbital energies of the same sublayer have the same value. On the other hand, with a magnetic field, the differences of orientation of these orbitals with respect to the magnetic field create potential energies of interaction with the magnetic field which are different for each orbital and the energies of the electrons associated with these different orbitals become different. \n\nThe magnetic field differentiating the energies of the electrons associated with the orbitals of the same sub-layer, new spectral lines related to the new electronic transitions associated with these new energies appear.;4;4;Casimir effect;Tunnel effect;Compton effect;Zeeman effect;
L;What quantum number characterizing an electron was created after the discovery by Zeeman of the division of some atomic spectral lines into 3 other lines when the atom is placed in a magnetic field (Zeeman effect)?;It is following the explanation of the Zeeman effect made in 1916 by Sommerfeld, that the magnetic quantum number m of the electron was created. \n\nWhen an atom is placed in a magnetic field, its spectral lines (emission or absorption) are separated into several other lines. This phenomenon, called the Zeeman effect, was discovered in 1902 by the Dutch physicist Pieter Zeeman. \n\nIn an atom, the energy levels of the electrons are discretized. The spectral lines of an atom are linked to the frequencies emitted or absorbed when an electron passes from one level of energy to another. \n\nThe electrons in an atom are distributed in n different layers (n = 1, 2, 3 ...), each layer is composed of one or more sub-layers called s, p, d, f, .. and each sub-layer is itself composed of one or more atomic orbitals. Each atomic orbital is characterized by a kinetic momentum and a magnetic moment whose orientation with respect to the nucleus of the atom is defined by the magnetic quantum number m of the electron. \n\nWithoutmagnetic field, the electron energies associated with the orbitals of the same sublayer have the same value. On the other hand, in the presence of a magnetic field, the differences of orientation of these orbitals with respect to the magnetic field create potential energies of interaction with the magnetic field which are different for each orbital and the energies of the electrons associated with these different orbitals become different. \n\nThe magnetic field differentiating the energies of electrons associated with the orbitals of the same sub-layer, new spectral lines related to the new electronic transitions associated with these new energies appear.;4;3;The main quantum number;The azimuthal quantum number;The quantum magnetic number;The quantum number of spin;
L;In quantum physics, an electron is characterized by several quantum numbers whose values are quantized. How many quantum numbers are there?;Each electron in an atom is characterized by four quantum numbers (n, l, m and s) whose values ??are quantized: they can only take well-defined values. \n\nThe first three numbers (n, l, m) characterize the electron orbital, the region in space where there is a very high probability of finding the electron, and the fourth (s) is an intrinsic electron property. \n "n" is the main quantum number. It is an integer that defines the electron electronic layer. \n"l" is the azimuth quantum number. It defines the electron orbital shape (spherical, dumbbell shaped ...) and can take values ??from 0 to n-1. \n "m" is the magnetic quantum number. It defines the orbital orientation with respect to the nucleus and can take values from  ??-l to + l. \n "s" is the spin quantum number. It is an intrinsic electron property that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, a rotation of the electron on itself.;4;2;Three;Four ;Five;Six;
L;In quantum physics, an electron is characterized by 4 quantum numbers. What quantum number characterizes the electron orbital shape?;Each electron in an atom is characterized by four quantum numbers (n, l, m and s) whose values ??are quantized: they can only take well-defined values. \n\nThe first three numbers (n, l, m) characterize the electron orbital, the region in space where there is a very high probability of finding the electron, and the fourth (s) is an intrinsic electron property. \n "n" is the main quantum number. It is an integer that defines the electron electronic layer. \n"l" is the azimuth quantum number. It defines the electron orbital shape (spherical, dumbbell shaped ...) and can take values ??from 0 to n-1. \n "m" is the magnetic quantum number. It defines the orbital orientation with respect to the nucleus and can take values from  ??-l to + l. \n "s" is the spin quantum number. It is an intrinsic electron property that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, a rotation of the electron on itself.;4;2;The main quantum number;The azimuthal quantum number;The quantum magnetic number;The spin quantum number;
L;In quantum physics, an electron is characterized by 4 quantum numbers. What quantum number characterizes the electron orbital orientation with respect to the nucleus?;Each electron in an atom is characterized by four quantum numbers (n, l, m and s) whose values ??are quantized: they can only take well-defined values. \n\nThe first three numbers (n, l, m) characterize the electron orbital, the region in space where there is a very high probability of finding the electron, and the fourth (s) is an intrinsic electron property. \n "n" is the main quantum number. It is an integer that defines the electron electronic layer. \n"l" is the azimuth quantum number. It defines the electron orbital shape (spherical, dumbbell shaped ...) and can take values ??from 0 to n-1. \n "m" is the magnetic quantum number. It defines the orbital orientation with respect to the nucleus and can take values from  ??-l to + l. \n "s" is the spin quantum number. It is an intrinsic electron property that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, a rotation of the electron on itself.;4;3;The main quantum number;The azimuthal quantum number;The quantum magnetic number;The spin quantum number;
L;Which physicist defined in 1927 an uncertainty principle which says it is not possible to know exactly at the same time both the position and the speed of a particle?;Werner Heisenberg established in 1927 the principle of uncertainty principle which says it is not possible to know at the same time both the position of a particle and its speed. \n\nQuantum physics, with the wave nature of moving particles, explains that it is impossible to measure both the velocity and position of a particle with great accuracy. \n\nThe reason is that the very notion of position / velocity torque for a particle does not make sense. If the particle is in motion and is seen as a wave, we cannot define a precise position since it spreads in space. If the particle is seen as a punctual corpuscle, we cannot define a velocity since this punctual location makes sense only during an instantaneous detection (as soon as time elapses, the particle becomes a wave again). \n\nIn an atom, an electron, having a well-defined energy, cannot follow an orbit that corresponds to a well-defined trajectory. This orbit is replaced by an orbital, calculated by the Schrödinger equation, which is the region of space where there is a very high probability of finding the electron.;4;3;Pauli;Bohr;Heisenberg;Schrödinger;
L;Which physicist proposed in 1925 the following principle: two electrons cannot be simultaneously in the same quantum state?;In 1925, Wolfgang Pauli proposed a principle that electrons cannot be simultaneously in the same quantum state. \n\nThe quantum state of an electron is characterized by four quantum numbers (n, l, m and s) whose values ??are quantified, that is to say which can only have well defined values. \n\nThe first three numbers (n, l, m) characterize the orbital occupied by the electron, it is ie the region in the space where there is a very high probability of finding the electron. They define the size, shape and orientation relative to the orbital core. The fourth number (s) is the spin of the electron. It is an intrinsic property of the electron that can be assimilated to an intrinsic kinetic moment, that is to say to a rotation of the electron on itself. The spin of the electron can only have 2 values: +1/2 (spin up) or -1/2 (spin down). \n\nThe Pauli exclusion principle shows that each electronic orbital (defined by the 3 numbers n, l and s) can only contain 2 electrons with different spin values ??(+1/2 and -1/2).;4;1;Pauli;Bohr;Heisenberg;Schrödinger;
L ;Who discovered superconductivity in 1911?;Superconductivity is the absence of electrical resistance of metals or alloys below a so-called critical temperature, which is a temperature close to absolute zero. \n\nThis phenomenon was discovered in 1911 by the Dutch physicist Kammerlingh Onnes , after he successfully liquefied helium (4.2 Kelvin). Measuring a mercury bar resistivity, he found that below 4.15 Kelvin it fell sharply to an infinitely low value. \n\nSuperconductivity was only understood in 1972 when John Bardeen, Leon Cooper and Robert Schrieffer received the Nobel Prize for their BCS theory (which bears their initials) on superconductivity.;4;4;John Bardeen;Léon Cooper;Robert Schrieffer;Kammerlingh Onnes;
L;Does the electrical resistance of metals vary with temperature?;The electrical resistance of metals or alloys decreases when the temperature decreases because the vibration of atoms due to thermal agitation is one of the two causes of electrical resistance. \n\nThe electric current in a metal is due to its free electrons movements. It has been discovered with quantum physics that electrons are waves whose shape adapts to the regular network formed by atoms. This allows the electron to move without being disturbed by the atoms, even if they are bulky and almost touch each other. There are however two sources of hindrance to the movements of these waves: The presence of defects in the crystal lattice of the metal and the vibration of the atoms due to thermal agitation. \n\nThe presence of defects in the regularity of the network, by example an absent atom (a gap), an atom in excess (an interstitial), a larger or smaller atom (an impurity), will hinder the movement of the electron. Each time, this "disorder" bounces the electron and its wave, which slows it down. A bit like a wave bouncing off a pillar in the sea. \n\nAnother source of disorder, the most important in pure metals, comes from the vibrations of atoms due to thermal agitation. Indeed, these vibrations are also a kind of disorder, like a class of quiet students who suddenly start to stir just before recess. The higher the temperature, the more the atoms vibrate, and the more this disorder is important.;3;1;Yes, it decreases when temperature decreases;Yes, it increases when temperature drops;No, it does not depend on temperature;;
L;John Bardeen, Leon Cooper and Robert Schrieffer received the Nobel Prize in 1972 for their BCS theory (which bears their initials). What is this theory?;Superconductivity is the absence of electrical resistance of metals or alloys below a so-called critical temperature, which is a temperature close to absolute zero. \n\nThis phenomenon was discovered in 1911 by the Dutch physicist Kammerlingh Onnes , which had just successfully liquefied helium (4.2 Kelvin). Measuring a mercury bar resistivity, he found that below 4.15 Kelvin it fell sharply to an infinitely low value. \n\nSuperconductivity was only understood in 1972 when John Bardeen, Leon Cooper and Robert Schrieffer received the Nobel Prize for their BCS theory (which bears their initials) on superconductivity. \n\nThe central idea of ??BCS theory is based on the quantum nature of electrons. In a metal, electrons are waves. Each of these electrons is relatively independent and follows its own course without worrying too much about other electrons. In a superconductor, the electrons combine into pairs that gather together to form a large collective wave. In quantum mechanics, we speak of a macroscopic quantum wave function, or of condensate. Once formed, this collective wave requires each of its participants to advance at the same speed. In a metal, an individual electron is easily deflected by a defect like a too big atom. But in the superconductor, this same electron can not be deflected because at the same time all the other electrons of the collective wave would have to be deflected in the same way.;4;2;The electroweak theory;The superconductivity theory;The quantum electrodynamics theory;The quantum chromodynamics theory;
L;The magnetic susceptibility of a diamagnetic material is:;The magnetic susceptibility of a material characterizes the ease with which it reacts as a function of the external magnetic field applied to it. For a negative susceptibility, its magnetization is opposite to the external magnetic field and it is repelled. \n\nA diamagnetic material does not have its own magnetic moment, but an external magnetic field creates a magnetic moment (induced magnetic moment) of opposite direction with respect to it. The diamagnetic material then has a magnetization which opposes the external magnetic field. Its magnetic susceptibility is therefore negative and it is repulsed by the magnet which generated the external magnetic field. It should be noted that this effect is very small.;2;1;negative;positive;;;
L;The magnetic susceptibility of a paramagnetic material is;The magnetic susceptibility of a material characterizes the ease with which it reacts as a function of the external magnetic field applied to it. For a positive susceptibility, its magnetization is aligned with the external magnetic field and is attracted. \n\nA paramagnetic material has its own magnetic moment. When an external magnetic field is applied to it, its magnetic moment is aligned with it. Its magnetic susceptibility is therefore positive and it is attracted by the magnet that generated the external magnetic field.;2;2;negative;positive;;;
L;The emission of light by the light-emitting diodes (LEDs) is caused by:;A light-emitting diode is a junction of 2 semiconductors that emit light when it is forward-biased. \n\nA semiconductor is a material in which some electrons can be released from their atom provided they have enough energy. These electrons are said to pass from the "valence band", where they are attached to their atom, to the "conduction band" where they have become free electrons. \n\nA sufficient voltage makes it possible to pass electrons from the "valence band" to the "conduction band". So we end up with the following configuration: \n-" The "valence band" lost an electron. It has a free place, called "hole". \n-" The "conduction band" has obtained an electron. It has become a free electron that can conduct the current. \n\nBut this configuration is not stable and so does not stay that way. The electron ends up returning to its hole (electron-hole recombination). In this case it releases an energy "Delta E" equal to the energy difference between the "valence band" and the "conduction band". This energy can be: \n-" Dissipated in the form of heat (phonons), \n-" Emitted in the form of light (photons). \n\nThe semiconductors used to make light-emitting diodes are semiconductors of type "direct gap" for which the energy is emitted essentially in the form of light. This is the electroluminescence effect.;2;2;Excitation of the electrons that go from "valence band" to "conduction band";De-excitation of electrons returning to "valence band" from "conduction band";;;
L;What type are semiconductors used in light-emitting diodes (LEDs)?;A light-emitting diode is a junction of 2 semiconductors that emit light when it is forward-biased. \n\nA semiconductor is a material in which some electrons can be released from their atom provided they have enough energy. These electrons are said to pass from the "valence band", where they are attached to their atom, to the "conduction band" where they have become free electrons. \n\nA sufficient voltage makes it possible to pass electrons from the "valence band" to the "conduction band". So we end up with the following configuration: \n-" The "valence band" lost an electron. It has a free place, called "hole". \n-" The "conduction band" has obtained an electron. It has become a free electron that can conduct the current. \n\nBut this configuration is not stable and so does not stay that way. The electron ends up returning to its hole (electron-hole recombination). In this case it releases an energy "Delta E" equal to the energy difference between the "valence band" and the "conduction band". This energy can be: \n-" Dissipated in the form of heat (phonons), \n-" Emitted in the form of light (photons). \n\nThe semiconductors used to make light-emitting diodes are semiconductors of type "direct gap" for which the energy is emitted essentially in the form of light. This is the electroluminescence effect.;2;1;Type "direct gap";Type "indirect gap";;;
L;What are the bonds that bind the molecular crystals?;Molecular crystals are crystallized solids in which the nodes are occupied by atoms (case of noble gases) or simple molecules. The stability of the crystalline lattice is ensured by van der Waals type bonds or by hydrogen type bonds. \n\nSolid hydrogen, solid oxygen dioxide, dry ice are examples of molecular crystals with Van der Waals type bonds. Ice is an example of a molecular crystal with hydrogen type bonds.;4;3;Covalent bonds;Ionic bonds;Hydrogen bonds or Van der Waals bonds;Metal bond;
L;Which scientist published in 1915 a theory of displacement or drift continents?;In 1912, Alfred de Wegener, a German geophysicist, suggested that continents could drift to the surface of the planet as would debris from a gigantic raft floating on very hot pasta that exists from the depths of the earth. \n\nOne made fun of his idea until the 60s. But after the discovery of the ocean floor magnetic anomalies, the drift of the continents became a reality attested by direct and indirect observations, and that one includes in the more general framework of the theory of plate tectonics.;4;2;Emile Argand;Alfred Wegener;Boris Choubert;Léon Lutaud;
L;The earth internal structure is composed of a crust, a mantle and a nucleus. What is the name of the discontinuity that separates the crust from the mantle?;The earth internal structure is composed of several layers with spherical surfaces, nested like Russian dolls. These layers are the crust, mantle and core composed of a liquid outer core and a solid inner core. \n\nThese different layers composing the internal structure of the globe have been discovered by discontinuities in the seismic waves velocities (when crossing the different layers). From one layer to another, the materials change density and chemical composition, which varies the seismic waves speed. \n\nThe crust, thick from 6 to 40 km, is limited at its base by the Mohorovicic discontinuity, called the Moho. \n\nThe mantle, under the Moho, extends up to 2900 km deep. It is limited at its base by the Gutenberg discontinuity. \n\nThe nucleus is located at the center of the earth. The liquid outer core is separated from the solid inner core by the Lehmann discontinuity.;3;1;The Mohorovicic discontinuity;The Gutenberg discontinuity;The Lehmann discontinuity;;
L;The earth internal structure is composed of a crust, a mantle and a nucleus. What is the name of the discontinuity between the mantle and the core?;The earth internal structure is composed of several layers with spherical surfaces, nested like Russian dolls. These layers are the crust, mantle and core composed of a liquid outer core and a solid inner core. \n\nThese different layers composing the internal structure of the globe have been discovered by discontinuities in the seismic waves velocities (when crossing the different layers). From one layer to another, the materials change density and chemical composition, which varies the seismic waves speed. \n\nThe crust, thick from 6 to 40 km, is limited at its base by the Mohorovicic discontinuity, called the Moho. \n\nThe mantle, under the Moho, extends up to 2900 km deep. It is limited at its base by the Gutenberg discontinuity. \n\nThe nucleus is located at the center of the earth. The liquid outer core is separated from the solid inner core by the Lehmann discontinuity.;3;2;The Mohorovicic discontinuity;The Gutenberg discontinuity;The Lehmann discontinuity;;
L;The earth internal structure is composed of a crust, a mantle and a core composed of an outer core and an inner core. What is the name of the discontinuity between the liquid outer core and the solid inner core?;The earth internal structure is composed of several layers with spherical surfaces, nested like Russian dolls. These layers are the crust, mantle and core composed of a liquid outer core and a solid inner core. \n\nThese different layers composing the internal structure of the globe have been discovered by discontinuities in the seismic waves velocities (when crossing the different layers). From one layer to another, the materials change density and chemical composition, which varies the seismic waves speed. \n\nThe crust, thick from 6 to 40 km, is limited at its base by the Mohorovicic discontinuity, called the Moho. \n\nThe mantle, under the Moho, extends up to 2900 km deep. It is limited at its base by the Gutenberg discontinuity. \n\nThe nucleus is located at the center of the earth. The liquid outer core is separated from the solid inner core by the Lehmann discontinuity.;3;3;The Mohorovicic discontinuity;The Gutenberg discontinuity;The Lehmann discontinuity;;
L;Is the mantle beneath the earth's crust liquid or solid?;The mantle, located beneath the earth's crust, extends to a depth of 2900 km and its temperature is between 1000 degrees and 3000 degrees Celsius. As it is made of rocks and we know that in the laboratory most of the rocks melt between 800 degrees and 1300 degrees Celsius, we would expect that in the mantle the rocks would all be melted. However, this is not the case, because we must take into account the pressure. \n\nIn fact, when we sinking underground, the temperature increases but the pressure also increases, and the melting temperature of a solid increases with its pressure. In the mantle the pressure exceeds a million times the atmospheric pressure. \n\nAs the mantle temperature remains always lower than the melting temperature corresponding to its pressure, this one is still solid and not liquid. \n\nBy against if sufficiently warm mantle rocks can rise just below the earth's crust, where there is moderate pressure, they may melt and form the magmatic chambers that feed the volcanoes. But unlike the intuitive image, these chambers are not in the middle of the mantle, they are usually located shallow, a few kilometers or tens of kilometers below the surface.;2;2;It is liquid;It is solid;;;
L;The nucleus, which is located at the center of the earth, is composed of an outer core and an inner core. What is its consistency?;The nucleus is located under the mantle (located itself under the earth's crust), and extends from 2900 km to the center of the earth. Unlike the mantle that is made up of rocks, the core is made essentially of iron and a little nickel. As these elements are very dense, when the earth was formed, they flowed towards the center to form the nucleus. \n\nIt should be noted that at the depth of the core, the temperature is very high but the pressure is also very high, and the melting temperature of a metal increases with its pressure. \n\nOn the outer part of the nucleus, the shallower, the temperature remains higher than the iron melting point, so at this point the nucleus is liquid. But beyond 5000 km, in the inner part of the nucleus, the pressure is such that the iron melting point exceeds the temperature which prevails there and thus the internal core is solid. \n\nThe nucleus is thus formed of two parts , a liquid outer core and an inner core in which the pressure is enough to keep it solid and this region is called the seed.;4;3;It is liquid;It is solid;The outer core is liquid and the inner core is solid;The outer core is solid and the inner core is liquid;
L;How did we learn about the earth internal structure?;It is now known that under the earth's crust we find a solid mantle capable of deforming, and that a nucleus is located at the center of the earth composed of a liquid outer part and a solid inner part (the seed). \n\nIt is not by drilling, the deepest of which reached only 12 km, that we acquired this knowledge but it is by analyzing the seismic waves that are captured by the different seismographs located at the surface of the planet. \n\nWhen an earthquake occurs, two types of vibrations occur: P waves (pressure waves) and S waves (shear waves). P waves can propagate indifferently in liquid or solid media, whereas S waves propagate only in solid media. \n\nThus S waves can only propagate if they have only solid to cross and they are thus stopped by the liquid external core and which creates a shadow zone, opposite the epicenter, in which one will not detect S wave. The size of this shadow zone gives us information on the different layers density and on the liquid core extent that stops them. \n\nOn the other hand, P waves, which can propagate in liquids, will not be stopped by the outer nucleus, but when they arrive in this zone where the density changes abruptly, they will be deflected. Like for the S waves, some will be diverted to the surface without having to cross the nucleus, while others will enter the nucleus but undergo a refraction and this will also create a shadow zone for the P waves, but which will be located differently from that of the S waves. \n\nWhenever an earthquake occurs, one can thus learn quantity of information on the earth internal structure by analyzing the P and S waves which are captured by the different seismographs located on the surface of the planet.;2;2;By drilling;By the seismic waves  analysis;;;
L;Are the ionic bonds, ensuring ionic crystals cohesion such as sodium chloride (salt), strong bonds?;The ionic bonds, ensuring ionic crystals cohesion, are strong bonds. \n\nA lot of energy is necessary to break these bonds and this explains why the ionic crystals have high melting points. So the melting point of sodium chloride is 801 degrees Celsius. \n\nAnd yet, you just have to hammer on a salt crystal to crumble. Indeed, after receiving a shock, the crystal has small cracks, and one layer can shift on another. This offset causes an alignment of a positive charge against a positive charge, and a negative charge against a negative charge. Thus the two segments repel each other, and the crystal crumbles.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;The lithosphere (earth 's surface rigid envelope) is divided like a puzzle into a number of large tectonic plates. How many large tectonic plates are there?;The lithosphere is the earth's surface rigid envelope. It is divided like a puzzle into a set of plates called tectonic plates (or lithospheric plates) that move a few centimeters a year in different directions. The plates displacement is caused by vertical convection movements of the rocks inside the mantle due to the enormous heat released by the Earth's core. It is these plates movements that are responsible for earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. \n\nThere are fifteen large major tectonic plates and forty minor plates or microplates located at the edge of the major plates. \n\nThe fifteen major plates are the following: Antarctic, Arabian, Pacific, Eurasian, African, Juan de Fuca, Indian, Australian, North America, South America, Nazca, Philippines, Cocos, Scotia and Caribbean.;4;3;Five;Ten;Fifteen;Twenty;
L;Methane, of formula CH4, forms 4 covalent bonds with 4 hydrogen atoms. What are the names of the orbitals created to form these links?;A sp3 hybrid orbital is a combination of a "s" orbital (spherical shape) and a "p" orbital (dumbbell shaped) with a 25% nature "s" and a 75% nature "p". These orbitals are called sp3 because they are like mixing a "s" orbital with 3 "p" orbitals. \n\nFor example, for carbon, these sp3 hybrid orbitals are created when it needs to form 4 bonds covalent with 4 neighboring atoms as in the case of methane CH4. Since carbon can not form 4 covalent bonds with its 2 single electrons of its 2p sublayer, four sp3 orbitals are created, each containing 1 electron. These 4 sp3 orbitals can then form 4 covalent bonds with 4 hydrogen atoms. These 4 sp3 orbitals adopt a form of tetrahedron in space.;3;1;sp3 orbitals;sp2 orbitals;sp orbitals;;
L;In chemistry, the Lewis formula of a molecule:;The Lewis formula is a representation of the molecule structure showing the connections (covalent bonds) between the different atoms of the molecule as well as the possible non-binding doublets of each atom. \n\nWith this representation, the covalent bonds as well as the non-binding doublets are represented by dashes. \n\nThus, the Lewis formula of acetylene, of empirical formula C2H2 is: H - C ? C - H;3;2;indicates the nature and proportions of the different atoms of the molecule;shows all the bonds between the atoms of the molecule;shows the skeleton of the carbon chain of an organic molecule;;
L;The theory of plate tectonics shows that the Atlantic Ocean:;The Atlantic Ocean is traversed from north to south by an oceanic ridge that separates the Eurasian and African plates from American plates for about 7000 km. This Atlantic ridge is a divergent boundary between these plates. The plates on either side of this ridge diverge due to the rise of magma in its center  that pushes them and forms a new oceanic crust. This rise of magma also produces intense volcanic activity with the formation of many underwater volcanoes all along the dorsal. \n\nThis creation of new oceanic crust at the Atlantic Ridge is the cause of expansion of the Atlantic Ocean.;2;1;is getting larger, and so America is moving away from Europe and Africa;is narrowing, and so America is getting closer to Europe and Africa;;;
L;The theory of plate tectonics shows that the Pacific Ocean:;he Pacific Ocean is bordered by ocean pits that are areas where the less dense oceanic crust sinks under the denser continental crust. These are the Aleutian, Kurile, Mariana, and Japanese pits ... This mechanism where a plate sinks under another is called subduction. This belt of subduction pits around the Pacific Ocean is called "Pacific Ring of Fire" because it is an active area regarding volcanic and seismic activity. \n\nThe subduction causes the disappearance of the oceanic crusts that plunge into the pits and join the Earth's mantle and this disappearance is the cause of the Pacific Ocean narrowing.;2;2;is getting larger, and so America is moving away from Asia and Australia;is narrowing, and so America is getting closer to Asia and Australia;;;
L;Which ocean is surrounded by an active zone regarding volcanic and seismic activity called a "Ring of Fire"?;The Pacific Ocean is bordered by ocean pits that are areas where the less dense oceanic crust sinks under the denser continental crust. These are the Aleutian, Kurile, Mariana, and Japanese pits ... This mechanism where a plate sinks under another is called subduction. This ring of subduction pits around the Pacific Ocean is called a "Ring of Fire" because it is an active area regarding volcanic and seismic activity. \n\nThe subduction causes the disappearance of the oceanic crusts that plunge into the pits and join the Earth's mantle and this disappearance is the cause of a narrowing of the Pacific Ocean.;3;3;Atlantic Ocean;Indian Ocean;Pacific Ocean;;
L;In geology, what is a rift?;A rift is a collapsed, faulted, elongated area that affects continents or ocean ridges. Rifts are locations having frequent volcanic eruptions as well as lava flows along its fractures.;4;2;Desert;Collapsed area;Ocean pit;Mountain range;
L;In geology, what is an oceanic ridge?;Ocean ridges mark the boundaries between diverging oceanic plates. The plates on either side of this ridge diverge due to the magma rise in its center that pushes them and forms a new oceanic crust. This magma rise also produces intense volcanic activity with the formation of many underwater volcanoes all along the dorsal. These volcanoes form elongated reliefs at the bottom of the oceans. Ranging from 1000 to 2000 km, they are more than 60 000 km long and 2000 m high. In some points, the summit can reach the ocean surface (Iceland, Acores ...).;2;2;A boundary between two converging oceanic plates;A boundary between two divergent oceanic plates;;;
L;In plate tectonics, what is a subduction?;Subduction characterizes the dive of an oceanic tectonic plate under another plate. The latter is either oceanic (but less dense than the diving plate) or continental. \n\nThe subductions take place at subduction zones, where two converging tectonic plates meet, at the opposite of the zones where they are formed (ocean ridges). Since the earth surface is constant, the crust created at the level of oceanic ridges must necessarily disappear elsewhere. \n\nThe subduction is usually accompanied by a partial melting of the diving crust or surrounding mantle, which can involve volcanism behind the subduction zone.;3;2;The collision of two tectonic plates;The dive of a tectonic plate under another;The friction of two tectonic plates one on the other;;
L;Has the Earth's magnetic field undergone inversions over time?;The ocean ridges form divergent boundaries tectonic plates. The two plates located on both sides of an oceanic ridge move apart due to the magma rise in its center that pushes them and forms a new oceanic crust. So the farther we get from the ridge, the more we are dealing with an old soil, and the more we go back in time. However, it has been found the existence of strips parallel to the dorsals axis having opposite magnetizations. The magnetization of these rocks corresponds to those they acquired when they emerged from the ground because cooling their magnetization was then frozen. \n\nThis phenomenon shows that the Earth's magnetic field has undergone inversions over time and the analysis of the magnetization of these bands of rocks allows to carry out a detailed cartography of the history of the Earth's magnetic field.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;In chemistry, which are the most reactive metals?;Alkali metals form Group 1 of the periodic table of elements. Their outer layer has only one electron. They can very easily lose this electron. These elements are therefore highly electropositive and will be able to bind easily with electronegative elements (like sodium with chlorine to form sodium chloride NaCl). These are the most reactive metals;4;1;Alkali metals;Alkaline earth metals;Transition metals;Lanthanides;
L;In chemistry, what is the most electronegative element?;The electronegativity of an element is its tendency to attract electrons. This electronegativity increases from left to right and from bottom to top in the periodic table of the elements (ignoring the last column which is that of the rare gases). \n\nFluorine, being located at the top and on the right of the periodic table, is the most electronegative element.;4;3;Hydrogen;Oxygen;Fluorine;Chlorine;
L;On which chemical mechanism is based the operating principle of an electrical battery?;In a redox reaction, a chemical entity transfers electrons to another chemical entity. The chemical entity that receives the electrons is the oxidant and the entity that gives the electrons is the reducer. \n\nIf the oxidant and reductant are immersed in two separate solutions connected by an electric wire, they can exchanged electrons through the electric wire: this is the operating principle of the electric battery. In order to maintain the electrical neutrality of the two solutions, the two solutions must be connected by means of an ion-containing gel (called "salt bridge"). \n\nThe combination of the two solutions and the salt bridge form an electric battery : thanks to oxidation-reduction reactions, there is a "pole -" on the side of the reducer (the one that wants to give electrons), and a "pole +" on the side of the oxidant (who wants to capture electrons).;2;1;An oxidation-reduction reaction;An acid-base reaction;;;
L;How is the mass of the proton relative to that of the neutron?;Expressed in "atomic mass unit" (denoted u or uma), the mass of a proton is equal to 1,007 u and the mass of a neutron is 1,009 u. \n\nWe see that the neutron has a mass very slightly higher than that of the proton. On the other hand, protons and neutrons have a mass about 2000 times greater than that of an electron. \n\n (1u corresponds exactly to 1/12 of the mass of a neutral atom of the carbon-12 isotope ).;3;3;A proton and a neuton have identical masses;The mass of the proton is greater than that of the neutron;The mass of the proton is less than that of the neutron;;
L;In atomic physics, masses are often expressed in uma (atomic mass unit). What is an uma?;By definition, 1u (atomic mass unit, also denoted uma) corresponds exactly to 1/12 of the mass of a neutral atom of the carbon-12 isotope. \n\nWith this definition, the mass of a proton is equal to 1,007 u and the mass of a neutron equals 1,009 u. We see that the neutron has a mass slightly higher than that of the proton. On the other hand, protons and neutrons have a mass about 2000 times larger than that of an electron.;4;4;Mass of hydrogen atom;Mass of proton;Mass of neutron;1/12 of the mass of carbon-12 isotope;
L;What is the name of the transition from gaseous state to solid state, without going through the liquid state?;Deposition (or solid condensation) is the transition from gaseous state to solid state without going through the liquid state. The reverse process (direct transition from solid to gaseous state) is called sublimation. \n\nWe can observe this deposition process when the water vapor naturally present in the atmosphere is converted into ice at contact with a very cold glass in winter, forming frost.;3;2;sublimation;déposition;solidification;;
L;In an electric battery, what physical measure determine the voltage it delivers?;An electric battery consists of two half-batteries. Each half-battery is associated with a pair (Oxidizer / Reducer) having a redox potential expressed in volts. \n\nThe redox potential makes it possible to locate the pairs (Oxidizer / reductant) on a scale that measures the force of the oxidant. The reference redox potential, equal to 0, is assigned to the torque (H+ / H2). \n\nThe battery anode is on the side of the battery where the redox potential is highest. The other side, which has a lower redox potential, is called the cathode. \n\nThe voltage delivered by the battery is equal to the redox potential (anode side) minus the redox potential (cathode side).;3;1;Redox potential;Ionic potential;Thermodynamic potential;;
L;According to Arrhenius, what are the definitions of an acid and a base?;There are 3 definitions of acid and base. \n\nAccording to Arrhenius, an acid is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution. \n\nAccording to Bronsted, an acid is a chemical specis that can give a proton and a base is a chemical specis that can receive a proton. This definition is more general than that of Arrhenius which describes the behavior of acids and bases only in water. \n\nAccording to Lewis, an acid is a chemical specis that can accept a pair of electrons and a base is a chemical specis that can give a pair of electrons.;3;1;An acid increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution;An acid can give a proton and a base can receive a proton;An acid can accept a pair of electrons and a base can give a pair of electrons;;
L;According to Bronsted, what are the definitions of an acid and a base?;There are 3 definitions of acid and base. \n\nAccording to Arrhenius, an acid is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution. \n\nAccording to Bronsted, an acid is a chemical specis that can give a proton and a base is a chemical specis that can receive a proton. This definition is more general than that of Arrhenius which describes the behavior of acids and bases only in water. \n\nAccording to Lewis, an acid is a chemical specis that can accept a pair of electrons and a base is a chemical specis that can give a pair of electrons.;3;2;An acid increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution;An acid can give a proton and a base can receive a proton;An acid can accept a pair of electrons and a base can give a pair of electrons;;
L;According to Lewis, what are the definitions of an acid and a base?;There are 3 definitions of acid and base. \n\nAccording to Arrhenius, an acid is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base is a chemical specis that increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution. \n\nAccording to Bronsted, an acid is a chemical specis that can give a proton and a base is a chemical specis that can receive a proton. This definition is more general than that of Arrhenius which describes the behavior of acids and bases only in water. \n\nAccording to Lewis, an acid is a chemical specis that can accept a pair of electrons and a base is a chemical specis that can give a pair of electrons.;3;3;An acid increases the concentration of H+ ions in aqueous solution and a base increases the concentration of OH- ions in aqueous solution;An acid can give a proton and a base can receive a proton;An acid can accept a pair of electrons and a base can give a pair of electrons;;
L;An acid is a chemical specis that can give a proton. The product obtained after liberation of the proton is called:;In an acid / base pair (A / B): \n + Acid A produces base B after having liberated a proton H+ \n + Base B produces acid A after having captured a proton H+ \n\nA and B are called conjugated acid and base. \n\nAn acid / base pair is characterized by its protonic half-equation: \n\nA = B + H+ (The reaction can take place in both directions);2;2;The homologous base of the acid;The conjugate base of the acid;;;
L;An acid is all the stronger as its conjugate base is stable.;When an acid (of generic formula HB) dissolves in water, it produces an H+ ion which immediately binds with a water molecule H2O to form a hydronium H3O+ ion. \n\nThe balance equation of this dissolution is: \ nH-B + H2O "-" H3O+ + B- (B- is the conjugate base of HB acid). \n\nThis is a reversible reaction because the base B- can react with the H3O+ ion to reconstitute HB acid and H2O water. On the other hand, the more stable the B- base, the less reactive it will be to react with the H3O+ ion and the stronger H-B acid.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of two species that have the same molecular formula with a different chemical structure;In organic chemistry, two compounds are constitution isomers, if they have the same molecular formula but a different structural formula. \n\nNote: There are also stereoisomers when two compounds differ only in their spatial configuration;3;1;Constitution isomers;Stereoisomers;Mesomers;;
L;In thermodynamics, a system transformation is called isothermal if:;An isothermal transformation is a chemical or physical system transformation in which the temperature remains constant and uniform. \n\nAn adiabatic transformation is performed if it is carried out without any heat transfer between the studied system and the external environment (without heat exchange). This does not mean that the system temperature remains constant, unlike the isothermal case. \n\nA system transformation is called monothermal if the temperature in the final state returns to that of the initial state (but the temperature may vary during processing).;3;1;The temperature remains constant and uniform;there is no heat transfer;The temperature in the final state is equal to that of the initial state;;
L;In thermodynamics, a system transformation is called adiabatic if:;An isothermal transformation is a chemical or physical system transformation in which the temperature remains constant and uniform. \n\nAn adiabatic transformation is performed if it is carried out without any heat transfer between the studied system and the external environment (without heat exchange). This does not mean that the system temperature remains constant, unlike the isothermal case. \n\nA system transformation is called monothermal if the temperature in the final state returns to that of the initial state (but the temperature may vary during processing).;3;2;The temperature remains constant and uniform;there is no heat transfer;The temperature in the final state is equal to that of the initial state;;
L;In thermodynamics, a system transformation is called monothermal if:;An isothermal transformation is a chemical or physical system transformation in which the temperature remains constant and uniform. \n\nAn adiabatic transformation is performed if it is carried out without any heat transfer between the studied system and the external environment (without heat exchange). This does not mean that the system temperature remains constant, unlike the isothermal case. \n\nA system transformation is called monothermal if the temperature in the final state returns to that of the initial state (but the temperature may vary during processing).;3;3;The temperature remains constant and uniform;there is no heat transfer;The temperature in the final state is equal to that of the initial state;;
L;What thermodynamic parameter makes it possible to determine whether a chemical reaction can occur spontaneously?;The system free enthalpy (also called Gibbs energy) is a state function G defined by: G = H - TS with: \nG: system free enthalpy (or Gibbs energy)  \nH: system enthalpy \nS: system entropy  \nT: temperature \n\ nWe can show that a chemical reaction occurs spontaneously when there is a decrease in free enthalpy between the reaction products and the reagents;3;2;Enthalpy;Free enthalpy;Entropy;;
L;Which of these two magmatic rocks is produced by volcanoes?;Basalt is a typical example of volcanic rock produced in the magma chamber and the chimney of volcanoes. It represents 90% of the volcanic rocks. \n\nIn the case of volcanic rocks, the magma is rapidly cooled in contact with air or water and the produced rocks have a microlithic structure.;2;1;Basalt;Granite;;;
L;Which of these two magmatic rocks is produced in the depths of the earth?;Granite is a typical example of magmatic rock produced in depth and not on the surface of the earth like volcanic rocks. \n\nRocks produced in the depths of the earth are called plutonic rocks or intrusive rocks. For this type of rock the magma has been cooled slowly, which gives grained rocks because relatively well crystallized. Granite represents 95% of the plutonic rocks.;2;2;Basalt;Granite;;;
L;In geology, diagenesis is the mechanism of formation:;Diagenesis is the name given for all the physical and chemical transformations affecting a sediment after it has been deposited. It results in the sediment being transformed into sedimentary rock. \n\nCementation or induration is the main process of diagenesis. It starts from the fact that the salt water of the sea passes through a sediment and that if it is supersaturated with respect to certain minerals, it precipitates these minerals in the sediment pores and then welds the particles to form a sedimentary rock.;3;2;of magmatic rocks;of sedimentary rocks;of metamorphic rocks;;
L;Basaltic magmas contain more silica than granitic magmas;Basaltic magmas contain less silica than granitic magmas. \n\nThe viscosity of magma depends on its silica content. The more it contains silica, the more it is viscous. It is for this reason that granitic magmas, rich in silica, seldom reach the globe surface, whereas basaltic magmas, which are less rich in silica, and therefore more fluid, are more easily able to reach it. This is how basalts are the most common volcanic rocks.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;In geology there are three main families of rocks: magmatic rocks, sedimentary rocks, and ... What is the name of the third family of rocks?;The three main families of rocks are the following: \n\n1/ The magmatic rocks or igneous rocks, resulting from the crystallization of a magma as a result of its cooling. \n\n2 / The sedimentary rocks, resulting from the accumulation and consolidation of erosion products, most often in marine or lacustrine basins. \n\n3 / Metamorphic rocks, resulting from the transformation of the two previous ones under the effect of a modification of their environment , usually pressure and temperature, sometimes supplemented by chemical inputs.;3;3;Biochemical rocks;Earth rocks;Metamorphic rocks;;
L;In geology, what is the name of the rock resulting from the slow cooling in depth of a basaltic magma?;The lavas that feed the volcanic edifices are very often derived from basaltic magmas while the magmas that crystallize in depth are generally of granitic composition. \n\nBut, contrary to this trend, it happens that granitic magmas reach the surface and that basaltic magmas crystallize in depth. \n\nThe cooling rate conditions the external appearance of the rock. Thus the eruptive rock resulting from the slow cooling in depth of a basaltic magma is a gabbro. Its mineralogical composition is the same as that of a basalt, but all the minerals are well visible and the rock has a grainy appearance. \n\nIn contrast, the rock resulting from the effusion on the surface of a granitic magma is a rhyolite. It is a light gray rock with extremely fine grains, generally not identifiable with the naked eye;2;1;Gabbro;Rhyolite;;;
L;In geology, what is the name of the rock from the effusion on the surface of a granitic magma?;The lavas that feed the volcanic edifices are very often derived from basaltic magmas while the magmas that crystallize in depth are generally of granitic composition. \n\nBut, contrary to this trend, it happens that granitic magmas reach the surface and that basaltic magmas crystallize in depth. \n\nThe cooling rate conditions the external appearance of the rock. Thus the eruptive rock resulting from the slow cooling in depth of a basaltic magma is a gabbro. Its mineralogical composition is the same as that of a basalt, but all the minerals are well visible and the rock has a grainy appearance. \n\nIn contrast, the rock resulting from the effusion on the surface of a granitic magma is a rhyolite. It is a light gray rock with extremely fine grains, generally not identifiable with the naked eye;2;2;Gabbro;Rhyolite;;;
L;In geology what is the name of rocks study?;Petrology is The Science of Rocks. It includes their description, but also their classification and their genesis interpretation. \n\nThe petrology mainly comprises two branches: endogenous petrology (study of magmatic and metamorphic rocks) and exogenous petrology (study of sedimentary rocks).;2;1;Petrology;Pedology;;;
L;In geology, what is the name of soil studies?;Pedology is the soil study, that is to say the surface layer, enriched in organic matter of the earth's crust. It focuses as much on its formation as on its evolution over time. \n\nPedology has applications in the fields of agriculture, horticulture, archeology, and in the study pollution (by the filtering power of soils).;2;2;Petrology;Pedology;;;
L;In geology, what type of metamorphism is caused by an increase in pressure and temperature?;Regional metamorphism is caused by an increase in pressure and temperature without any significant overall change in chemical composition. It is caused by the accumulation of considerable sediment thicknesses in a sedimentation basin or by the superposition of folds during the formation of mountain ranges. \n\nWhen regional metamorphism the pressure and the temperature increase in parallel . The rocks almost always show a strong schistosity, witnessing the oriented pressures they have undergone during orogenic movements.;2;1;Regional metamorphism;Contact metamorphism;;;
L;In geology, what type of metamorphism is caused by an increase in temperature without pressure increase as well as by chemical inputs?;Contact metamorphism, limited in space to the proximity of a magmatic intrusion, is marked mainly by an increase of the temperature without increase of pressure and by silicate chemical contributions coming from the magma. \n\nThe metamorphism influence decreasing with the distance with the magmatic rock, a zonation is observed, witness of a decreasing metamorphism. This is called a halo of metamorphism;2;2;Regional metamorphism;Contact metamorphism;;;
L;In geology, what is a "red volcano"?;The "red volcanoes" (like the lava color), also called effusive volcanoes, are characterized by their fluid lava flows, of basaltic nature. Their volcanic edifices are generally spread over very large areas, as it is not uncommon for the lava flows to progress over very long distances. \n\nThese volcanoes are genrally not very dangerous, not causing a very lethal explosion. \n\nThey are located mainly in the geographical zones subjected to constraints of extension, along the mid-oceanic lines (submarine volcanism) and in very localized areas called "hot spots" (example: Hawaii or Reunion).;2;1;An effusive volcano characterized by its fluid lava flows;An explosive volcano;;;
L;In geology, what is a "gray volcano"?;A "gray volcano" (like the color of the ashes it rejects), is an explosive volcano that rejects bombs, lapilli, and huge quantities of burning particles, volcanic ashes. These volcanoes are very dangerous because their eruptions can destroy an entire region. \n\nThese volcanoes are located in the subduction zones where two tectonic plates converge with one dipping under the other, like those located on the Pacific Ring of Fire.;2;2;An effusive volcano characterized by its fluid lava flows;An explosive volcano;;;
L;For an earthquake, what parameter characterizes the energy that has been released?;The magnitude of an earthquake characterizes the energy that has been released. It is defined by a numerical value on the Richter scale, the name of its inventor. The Richter scale is a logarithmic scale which means that a progression of 1 unit corresponds to a factor of 10: thus a magnitude 7 earthquake has a range of motion that is ten times greater than that of a magnitude 6 earthquake.;2;1;magnitude;intensity;;;
L;For an earthquake, what parameter characterizes the effects felt by the population in a given place?;The intensity of an earthquake is defined by a numerical value characterizing the effects felt by the population in a given place. This is not a single value but a local estimate that will tend to decrease depending on the distance to the epicenter. \n\nThe scale used in Europe to define this value is the MSK scale (initials of 3 scientists, Medvedev-Sponheuer-Karnik, who published it in 1964). It has 12 degrees, from 1, the lowest, to 12 which corresponds to the total destruction of human constructions and to important changes in the landscapes.;2;2;magnitude;intensity;;;
L;In geology, a normal fault occurs:;A fault is a break in the earth's crust that is accompanied by a displacement of the two compartments thus created. The appearance of faults betrays the existence of tectonic stresses in a given place, which are a direct consequence of plate tectonics. \n\nThere are three types of faults: normal, inverse, and slip faults. \n\nA normal fault occurs when both compartments are pulled in opposite directions. The rock mass that lies above the fault then tends to go down. \n\nThe reverse faults appear in the opposite situation, when the two compartments are compressed against each other. In this case, the rock mass overhanging the fault rises. \n\nSlip (or transforming) faults correspond to the lateral sliding of one rocky compartment with respect to the other.;3;1;when two rocky compartments are pulled in opposite directions;when two rocky compartments are compressed against each other;when two rocky compartments slide laterally against each other;;
L;In geology, a reverse fault occurs:;A fault is a break in the earth's crust that is accompanied by a displacement of the two compartments thus created. The appearance of faults betrays the existence of tectonic stresses in a given place, which are a direct consequence of plate tectonics. \n\nThere are three types of faults: normal, inverse, and slip faults. \n\nA normal fault occurs when both compartments are pulled in opposite directions. The rock mass that lies above the fault then tends to go down. \n\nThe reverse faults appear in the opposite situation, when the two compartments are compressed against each other. In this case, the rock mass overhanging the fault rises. \n\nSlip (or transforming) faults correspond to the lateral sliding of one rocky compartment with respect to the other.;3;2;when two rocky compartments are pulled in opposite directions;when two rocky compartments are compressed against each other;when two rocky compartments slide laterally against each other;;
L;In geology, a slip fault occurs:;A fault is a break in the earth's crust that is accompanied by a displacement of the two compartments thus created. The appearance of faults betrays the existence of tectonic stresses in a given place, which are a direct consequence of plate tectonics. \n\nThere are three types of faults: normal, inverse, and slip faults. \n\nA normal fault occurs when both compartments are pulled in opposite directions. The rock mass that lies above the fault then tends to go down. \n\nThe reverse faults appear in the opposite situation, when the two compartments are compressed against each other. In this case, the rock mass overhanging the fault rises. \n\nSlip (or transforming) faults correspond to the lateral sliding of one rocky compartment with respect to the other.;3;3;when two rocky compartments are pulled in opposite directions;when two rocky compartments are compressed against each other;when two rocky compartments slide laterally against each other;;
L;In geology, what is a hot spot?;A hot spot is a place on the earth surface that has regular volcanic activity due to the presence beneath it of an ascending column, or plume, of hot material coming from the deep layers of the lower mantle. \n\nThe two most active hotspots today are Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean and Reunion Island in the South West Indian Ocean.;2;1;A very localized volcanic area;A thermal spring of hot water;;;
L;What is the name of an earthquake starting point?;The starting point of an earthquake, from which the seismic waves originate, is called the earthquake focus. \n\nThe point of the earth's surface, located vertically above the earthquake focus that receives the waves the first, most often with maximum violence, is the earthquake epicenter;2;2;Earthquake epicenter;Earthquake focus;;;
L;In geology, what is called "margin"?;The word "margin" in geology corresponds to the boundary between the oceanic crust and the continental crust. There are passive margins and active margins. \n\nA margin is passive when there are no seismic activity and volcanism. This is the case when there is no subduction phenomenon, that is to say when the oceanic plate dives under the continental plate. \n\nA margin is active when there are violent earthquakes and volcanism due to the subduction phenomenon. In this case, the continent / ocean boundary is marked by deep marine pits.;3;1;Limit between oceanic crust and continental crust.;Length of continental shelf;Distance between the continent and the abyssal plain;;
L;From which rock, marble, metamorphic rock, was it formed?;Marble is a metamorphic rock from a sedimentary rock that has been recrystallized without the addition of matter just by changes in pressure and temperature (when it is buried). The sedimentary rock at the origin of the marble is a limestone. \n\nWe find a great diversity of marble because there are often inclusions of metal oxides that give the marble its marbled appearance and its various colors.;4;2;Clay;Limestone;Sandstone;Granite;
L;Which of these rocks is of metamorphic type?;Marble is a metamorphic rock from a sedimentary rock that has been recrystallized without the addition of matter just by changes in pressure and temperature (when it is buried). The sedimentary rock at the origin of the marble is a limestone. \n\nWe find a great diversity of marble because there are often inclusions of metal oxides that give the marble its marbled appearance and its various colors.;4;1;Marble;Sandstone;Granite;Basalt;
L;From what rock, slate, metamorphic rock, was it formed?;Slate is a very fine schist that is a rock of metamorphic origin formed from clay. The rock has a laminated structure. The clay deposit is in calm waters. \n\nThe schist forms under the strong pressure exerted on the clays during the folding movements of the mountains.;4;1;Clay;Limestone;Sandstone;Granite;
L;Which of these rocks is of metamorphic type?;Schist is a rock of metamorphic origin formed from clay. The rock has a laminated structure. The clay deposit is in calm waters. \n\nThe shale is formed under the strong pressure exerted on the clays during the folding movements of the mountains. \n\nThe slate is a shale very fine.;4;4;Sandstone;Granite;Basalt;Schist;
L;Which of these rocks is of metamorphic type?;Gneiss is a metamorphic rock that can be derived from sandstone or granite. It is a rock presenting foliation and ribboning (alternation of light and dark layers). The clear layers contain quartz and feldspar while the dark layers contain black mica. A particular form of gneiss where feldspars persist in non-flattened form is called augen gneiss. \n\nIf the gneiss comes from a granite rock, it is called orthogneiss, if it comes from a sedimentary rock, it is said paragneiss. \ n \ nWe usually find gneiss in the deep parts, eroded, mountain ranges.;4;2;Granite;Gneiss;Sandstone;Gypsum;
L;Which of these rocks is of magmatic type?;Granite is the main rock of the earth's crust. It is a plutonic-type magma rock that results from the slow crystallization of a deep magma. Granite is composed of the following three minerals: black mica (and sometimes white mica), feldspar (colored crystals) and quartz that occupy the interstices between the mica and feldspar crystals.;4;2;Sandstone;Granite;Gneiss;Dolomite;
L;Which of these rocks is of magmatic type?;Basalts are magmatic rocks of the volcanic type. They are black and dense rocks. They come from a rapidly cooled magma and correspond to a volcanism dominated by lava flows, red volcanoes like those of Hawaii, Piton de la Fournaise on the La Réunion island or Erta Alé in Ethiopia. It is also the lava that spreads in the middle of the oceans and forms the superficial part of the oceanic crust.;4;1;Basalt;Gypsum;Sandstone;Gneiss;
L;Which of these rocks is of magmatic type?;Andesites are magmatic rocks of the volcanic type. They are gray rocks more or less vacuolar. They generally correspond to violent and explosive volcanism, gray volcanoes like those of the Andes (hence their name), those of Japan or Indonesia (volcanoes of the subduction zones).;4;3;Marble;Sandstone;Andesite;Dolomite;
L;What kind of rock is pumice?;Pumice stone is a volcanic type magmatic rock that results from the rapid solidification of a very rich gas lava. The pressure drop causes degassing forming bubbles, hence the porosity and low density of the rock. In the case of pumice, the bubbles are so numerous that the density of the rock is lower than that of the water: the stone floats.;4;3;Sedimentary rock;Metaphorphic rock;Volcanic rock;Plutonic rock;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of saturated hydrocarbons which consist only of carbon and hydrogen atoms linked together by simple bonds?;Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. They consist only of carbon atoms (C) and hydrogen (H), linked together by single bonds. \n\nWhen the alkane has one or more carbon rings, it is called cycloalkane. \n\nThe names of the alkanes end in "ane". For example methane (1 carbon), ethane (2 carbons), propane (3 carbons) ...;3;1;alkanes;alkenes;alkyne;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of unsaturated hydrocarbons, characterized by the presence of at least one covalent double bond between two carbon atoms?;Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons, characterized by the presence of at least one covalent double bond between two carbon atoms. \n\nThe names of the alkenes end with "ene". Thus, the simplest alkene is ethene, more commonly called ethylene, of formula CH2 = CH2.;3;2;alkanes;alkenes;alkyne;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name hydrocarbons with unsaturation characterized by the presence of a carbon-carbon triple bond.;An alkyne is an unsaturated hydrocarbon, consisting exclusively of carbon and hydrogen, having at least one triple bond between two carbon atoms. \n\nThe names of the alkynes end with "yne". Thus, the simplest of the alkynes is ethyne, commonly called acetylene, of formula CH?CH.;3;3;alkanes;alkenes;alkyne;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of hydrocarbons whose molecular structure includes a cycle with a formal alternation of single and double bonds;Arenes or aromatic hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons whose molecular structure includes a ring having a formal alternation of single and double bonds. The aromatic configuration of six carbon atoms is called the benzene ring, according to the simplest possible aromatic hydrocarbon, benzene. Aromatic hydrocarbons may be monocyclic or polycyclic. \n\nThe aromatic hydrocarbons are named after the fact that they are also found in certain fragrant plants such as pine, thyme or mint.;4;4;alkanes;alkenes;alkyne;Arene;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of the organic compound having the general formula R-O-R?;Etheroxides, also referred to simply as ethers, are organic compounds of the general formula R-O-R 'where O is an oxygen atom. \n\nThe ether formerly used as anesthetic is now especially used as a solvent. An example of an ether is diethyl ether (commonly known as ether) of the formula CH3CH2-O-CH2CH3.;4;3;Amine;Alcohol;Ether;Ester;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of the organic compound having the general formula R-OH?;An alcohol is an organic compound of which one of the carbons is linked to a hydroxyl group "OH". \n\nA well-known example of alcohol is ethanol, of formula CH 3 CH 2 -OH, present in alcoholic beverages and used in the industry as a solvent or disinfectant.;4;2;Amine;Alcohol;Ether;Ester;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of the organic compound with the general formula R-CO-R?;A ketone is an organic compound whose characteristic function is a carbonyl group C = O, that is to say an oxygen atom connected by a double bond to a carbon atom. The latter is necessarily surrounded by two carbon chains. \n\nThe simplest compound in this family is acetone, also called propanone, of the formula CH3-CO-CH3.;4;1;ketone;Alcohol;Amine;Ester;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of the organic compound having the general formula R-COOH?;A carboxylic acid is an organic compound whose characteristic function is a carboxyl group COOH, where the carbon is simultaneously connected to an oxygen atom by a double bond and to a hydroxyl group OH by a single bond. \n\nMany carboxylic acids are commonly referred to by their usual or trivial names. For example, ethanoic acid is also called acetic acid: it is the main component of vinegar after water. Acetylsalicylic acid is better known as aspirin. Lactic acid is a carboxylic acid found in milk, fruits and vegetables.;4;3;ketone;Alcohol;Carboxylic acid;Ester;
L;In organic chemistry, what are the names of two compounds that have the same semi-developed formula but differ in the spatial arrangement of atoms?;Two compounds are stereoisomers, if they have the same semi-developed formula but differ by the spatial arrangement of the atoms. \n\nThere are two types of stereoisomers: conformation stereoisomers and configuration stereoisomers. \n\n  -"Two conformation stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which only differ by rotations around single bonds between carbon atoms. \n  -"Two configuration stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which differ by rearrangement of their chemical bonds and not only by rotations around simple bonds between carbon atoms: We must destroy and recreate chemical bonds to move from one molecule to another.;3;2;Isomers of constitution;Stereoisomers;Mesomers;;
L;In organic chemistry, what are the names of two compounds that have the same structural formula and differ only in rotations around simple bonds between carbon atoms?;Two compounds are stereoisomers, if they have the same semi-developed formula but differ by the spatial arrangement of the atoms. \n\nThere are two types of stereoisomers: conformation stereoisomers and configuration stereoisomers. \n\n  -"Two conformation stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which only differ by rotations around single bonds between carbon atoms. \n  -"Two configuration stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which differ by rearrangement of their chemical bonds and not only by rotations around simple bonds between carbon atoms: We must destroy and recreate chemical bonds to move from one molecule to another.;4;2;Isomers of constitution;Conformation Stereoisomers;Configuration stereoisomers;Mesomers;
L;In organic chemistry, what are the names for two compounds that have the same developed formula and differ by rearrangement of their chemical bonds and not only by rotations around simple bonds between carbon atoms?;Two compounds are stereoisomers, if they have the same semi-developed formula but differ by the spatial arrangement of the atoms. \n\nThere are two types of stereoisomers: conformation stereoisomers and configuration stereoisomers. \n\n  -"Two conformation stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which only differ by rotations around single bonds between carbon atoms. \n  -"Two configuration stereoisomers are two stereoisomers which differ by rearrangement of their chemical bonds and not only by rotations around simple bonds between carbon atoms: We must destroy and recreate chemical bonds to move from one molecule to another.;4;3;Isomers of constitution;Conformation Stereoisomers;Configuration stereoisomers;Mesomers;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Limestone is a carbonate sedimentary rock that is formed by the accumulation of skeletons and shells for millions of years. It is composed by a mineral called "calcite" having the chemical formula CaCO3. It is calcium carbonate. \n\nlimestone thus consists of a multitude of small calcite crystals. There is another form of crystallization of limestone called "aragonite", but of the same chemical formula. \n\nA limestone rock is rarely pure. It usually contains a proportion of clay. If the proportion of clay reaches 10 to 20% of the rock, it is a marly limestone.;4;2;Marble;Limestone;Gneiss;Granite;
L;What composition is a limestone rock?;Limestone is a carbonate sedimentary rock that is formed by the accumulation of skeletons and shells for millions of years. It is composed by a mineral called "calcite" having the chemical formula CaCO3. It is calcium carbonate. \n\nlimestone thus consists of a multitude of small calcite crystals. There is another form of crystallization of limestone called "aragonite", but of the same chemical formula. \n\nA limestone rock is rarely pure. It usually contains a proportion of clay. If the proportion of clay reaches 10 to 20% of the rock, it is a marly limestone.;2;2;Silicate rock;Carbonated rock;;;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Clay is a rock of sedimentary type that comes from magmatic or metamorphic rocks made of aluminum silicates. \n\nThis rock is friable and is composed of a multitude of layers separated by tiny empty spaces, which may contain water. \n\nClay is the raw material for making tiles and bricks.;4;3;Andesite;Gneiss;Clay;Basalt;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Sand is a loose sedimentary rock formed from grains independent of each other whose size is between 1/16 min (minimum visibility with the naked eye) and 2 mn. If the grains are less than 1/16 min, it is called silt and not sand. \n\nThe nature of the grains is very diverse. A homogeneous sand consists of grains of the same nature, it is usually quartz grains: they are quartzous or siliceous sands. A heterogeneous sand is composed of grains of different nature: quartz, micas, feldspars, limestone shells ... \n\nTherefore there is a great variety of sands which gives the beaches very different colors. Coral sands are formed by fragmentation of a coral massif. Their grains are white. Black sands are associated with volcanic regions and come from the erosion of lava flows or slag.;4;4;Marble;Gneiss;Basalt;Sand;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Sandstone is a detrital sedimentary rock, resulting from the aggregation and cementation (or diagenesis) of sand grains. These grains of sand are most often made of quartz, but sometimes other types of grains can be observed, such as feldspars or micas. The nature of the cement that binds the grains varies from one sandstone to another: siliceous cement, limestone or ferruginous. \n\nThe sandstone is particularly used in construction. Many sculptures and monuments in the world have been made in sandstone, such as Strasbourg Cathedral and Carcassonne ramparts in France, or the city of Petra in Jordan.;4;3;Gneiss;Granite;Sandstone;Andesite;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Gypsum is an evaporite sedimentary rock that is formed by sedimentation in lagoons or salt marshes when the water evaporates. Under these conditions, the calcium sulphate dissolved in the water crystallizes to form crystals composed of hydrated calcium sulphate of formula CaSO4,2H2O. \n\nBy heating it, the gypsum loses its water, and is transformed into plaster of formula CaSO4. Plaster is a fire-retardant material used as coatings for walls, partitions and facades;4;3;Gneiss;Granite;Gypsum;Andesite;
L;Which of these rocks is sedimentary?;Gypsum is an evaporite sedimentary rock that is formed by sedimentation in lagoons or salt marshes when the water evaporates. Under these conditions, the calcium sulphate dissolved in the water crystallizes to form crystals composed of hydrated calcium sulphate of formula CaSO4,2H2O. \n\nBy heating it, the gypsum loses its water, and is transformed into plaster of formula CaSO4. Plaster is a fire-retardant material used as coatings for walls, partitions and facades;4;3;Gneiss;Granite;Gypsum;Andesite;
L;Geological times are divided into eras. In which era did the dinosaurs live?;Geological times have been broken down by geologists in a chronological scale. Thus, the history of fossil times was divided, as early as the nineteenth century, into three eras: Primary, secondary and tertiary. \n\nEach era is then divided into periods, each period being divided into epoches and each epoch divided into ages. The most important divisions, or eras, correspond to the appearance or disappearance of entire groups of organisms. \n\nThus, the beginning of the primary era corresponds to the appearance of the first fossilized organisms with mineralized tests or shells. The end of the primary era was marked by the disappearance of more than 95% of species, including Trilobites. The boundary between the secondary era and the tertiary era corresponds to the Cretaceous-Tertiary crisis during which several groups, including that of the Dinosaurs, disappeared. \n\nNote: The Quaternary era which marks the appearance of the first men ( Homo) no longer exists as an era, but is now part of the tertiary era as a period.;3;2;Paleozoic (primary);Mesozoic (secondary);Cenozoic (tertiary);;
L;In chemistry, which scale is generally used to compare the electronegativity of the different elements ?:;In chemistry, the electronegativity of an element is a magnitude that characterizes its ability to attract electrons when forming a chemical bond with another element. \n\nThere are several scales for comparing the electronegativity of different elements, but the most widely used scale is the Pauling scale that was developed by Linus Pauling in 1932. In this scale, the most electronegative element, fluorine, has a value of 3.98 and the element the least electronegative, the francium, a value of 0.7.;4;2;Pauli's scale;Pauling's scale;Planck's scale;Bohr's scale;
L;Geological times are divided into eras which are themselves divided into:;Geological times have been broken down by geologists in a chronological scale. Thus, the history of fossil times was divided, as early as the nineteenth century, into three eras: Primary, secondary and tertiary. \n\nEach era is then divided into periods, each period being divided into epoches and each epoch divided into ages. The most important divisions, or eras, correspond to the appearance or disappearance of entire groups of organisms. \n\nThus, the beginning of the primary era corresponds to the appearance of the first fossilized organisms with mineralized tests or shells. The end of the primary era was marked by the disappearance of more than 95% of species, including Trilobites. The boundary between the secondary era and the tertiary era corresponds to the Cretaceous-Tertiary crisis during which several groups, including that of the Dinosaurs, disappeared.;4;3;Epochs;Stages;Periods;Ages;
L;In geology, what other name is given to the primary era?;The primary era, also called Paleozoic, is a geological era that is characterized by the appearance and development of trilobites. It lasts from -540 to -250 million years. \n\nThe primary era ends with the Permian -Triassic extinction, with the disappearance of nearly 95% of the species. We do not yet really know the reasons for this extinction;3;3;Mesozoic;Cenozoic;Paleozoic;;
L;In geology, what other name is given to the secondary era?;The secondary era, also called the Mesozoic, begins with the extinction of the Permian-Triassic 250 million years ago, with the disappearance of nearly 95% of species, and ends with the Cretaceous -Tertiary crisis, 65 million years ago, during which several groups, including that of the Dinosaurs, disappeared.;3;2;Paleozoic;Mesozoic;Cenozoic;;
L;In geology, what other name is given to the tertiary era?;The tertiary era, also called the Cenozoic, begins with the Cretaceous-Tertiary crisis 65 million years ago, with the extinction of the dinosaurs. \n\nNote: The Quaternary era, which marks the appearance of the first men (genus Homo) no longer exists as an era, but is now part of the tertiary era as a period;3;1;Cenozoic;Paleozoic;Mesozoic;;
L;What type of gene use the DNA analyzes made by the Technical and Scientific Police for people identification?;Each cell in our body contains DNA molecules that make up our genetic material. DNA is a macromolecule consisting of a sequence of nucleotides of type A, G, C and T. These nucleotides are grouped into sequences called genes, each gene being a basic unit of inheritance which generally predetermines a particular trait of the individual. \n\nThe genotype is the set of genes and is unique for each person like his fingerprint. In fact more than 99% of the genes are identical in all human beings and so 1% of the genes that vary from one person to another remain. It is therefore this type of genes that is used by DNA analyzes. \n\nThe genes used for DNA analyzes are not genes encoding proteins but genes called microsatellite or STR sequences that are very numerous in DNA. What differentiates 2 individuals for these genes is the number of repetitions of the sequence. A genetic analysis makes it possible to measure this number of repetitions. The genetic analysis will measure the number of repetitions for about fifteen of these STR genes in order to obtain a footprint that will unquestionably represent the individual in a unique way.;2;2;Genes encoding proteins;Genes not encoding protein;;;
L;What is the name of the very white clay used for the manufacture of Limoges porcelain?;Clay is a rock of sedimentary type that comes from the alteration of aluminium silicate minerals. Clay is used in ceramics, for the manufacture of faience and porcelain. Limoges porcelain comes from cooking a variety of very white clay, called kaolin and exploited in this region.;4;2;Albite;Kaolin;Biotite;Bronzite;
L;In organic chemistry, what is a nucleophile?;In organic chemistry, a nucleophile ("which likes nuclei") is a chemical compound (molecule, ion) capable of giving an electron pair to form a bond with another compound which is an electrophile ("which likes electrons"). \n\nNucleophilic examples: Compound negatively charged formally or partially, or compound having a lone electron pairs or multiple bonds. .;2;1;Electron-rich chemical compound;Electron-poor chemical compound;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is an electrophile?;In organic chemistry, an electrophile ("which likes electrons") is a chemical compound (molecule, ion) capable of accepting an electron pair to form a bond with another compound which is a nucleophile (" which likes nuclei"). \n\nExamples of electrophile: Compound positively charged formally or partially. ;2;2;Electron-rich chemical compound;Electron-poor chemical compound;;;
L;In organic chemistry, the nucleophilic substitution reaction type Sn1 is carried out:;In a nucleophilic substitution reaction of a halogenated derivative of Sn1 type, there are two successive steps: \n - In the first step, the halogenated derivative is separated into two species: a carbocation, a reaction intermediate, and a halogen ion. This step is the kinetically limiting step of the Sn1 reaction. \n - The second step is the reaction of the carbocation with the nucleophile which binds to the carbon chain.;2;2;in one step;in two steps;;;
L;In organic chemistry, the nucleophilic substitution reaction type Sn2 is carried out:;In contrast to the nucleophilic substitution reaction of an Sn1 type halogenated derivative, there is no reaction intermediate for the Sn2 type reaction. The Sn2 reaction is carried out in a single step: the negatively charged nucleophile binds directly to the carbon opposite to the halogen which is detached from the carbon to form a halogen ion.;2;1;in one step;in two steps;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of the electronic effect associated with the delocalization of electron pairs in a molecule or an ion.;Mesomery, in organic chemistry, is the electronic effect associated with the delocalization of electron pairs in a molecule or an ion. \n\nIn this case, a single Lewis formula is not enough to completely represent a molecule or an ion and we need to write two or more formulas, to reflect the real behavior of the molecule or the ion. These different formulas are called the mesomeric forms of the molecule or ion. \n\nWe go from one mesomeric form to another by simply movements of electron pairs. \n\nThese mesomeric forms are limit states of what can happen in the molecule, but none exactly reflects the reality of the molecule. The reality is a hybrid form intermediate between different mesomeric forms, called hybrid form of resonance.;2;2;isomerism;mesomery;;;
L;When two bodies receive the same amount of heat, which become the hottest?;The thermal capacity of a body corresponds to the energy input (heat) to raise its temperature by 1 degree K. \n\nSo the higher the heat capacity of a body, the more heat it will be able to absorb without significant rise in temperature. \n\nThe thermal capacity of water is high (compared to that of a metal for example) which is why it is used as coolant in the industry, both for car engines than nuclear reactors. The heat transfer from hot metal to cold water drastically lowers the temperature of the metal, while that of water increases only slightly;2;2;The one with the highest thermal capacity;The one with the smallest thermal capacity;;;
L;In organic chemistry, a carbocation is a carbon chain where one of the carbon of the chain is positively charged. What is the most stable carbocation?;A carbocation is a carbon chain where one of the carbon of the chain is positively charged. This carbon has 3 covalent bonds with its 3 neighboring atoms and 0 lone pair. \n\nThe positive charge of the carbocation makes this species very unstable. \n\nThere are four types of carbocations: \n\nOne speaks of primary, secondary or tertiary carbocation depending on whether one, two or three groups other than hydrogen are binded on the positively charged carbon. If the charged carbon is bound only to 3 hydrogens, it is a methyl carbocation. \n\nThe most stable carbocation is the one that has the most bonds with groups other than hydrogen. Thus a tertiary carbocation is more stable than a secondary carbocation, the latter being more stable than a primary carbocation, and the latter being more stable than a methyl carbocation.;3;3;Primary Carbocation;Secondary carbocation;Tertiary carbocation;;
L;Which of these four fuels releases the most heat during combustion?;The combustion reactions are strongly exothermic. \n\nExamples of combustion heats, expressed in kJ / g: \nhydrogen: 143 \nnatural gas: 50 \ngasoline: 48 \ncrude oil: 43 \ncoal: 29 \nPaper: 20 \n\nIt is is the hydrogen combustion that releases the most heat.;4;3;gasoline;Natural gas;Hydrogen;Crude oil;
L;In organic chemistry, the type E1 elimination reaction is carried out:;This type E1 elimination reaction transforms, under the action of a base, a substituted alkane (haloalkane, alcohol, etc.) into an alkene. \n\nThere are two successive steps: In the first step, The substituted alkane is separated into two species: a carbocation, a reaction intermediate, and a halogen or OH- ion depending on the nature of the substituent. \n\nIn the second step, the base removes a proton at the carbocation, which releases a pair of electrons to form a second bond between two carbon atoms.;2;2;In one step;In two steps;;;
L;In organic chemistry, the type E2 elimination reaction is carried out:;Like the E1 reaction, this type E2 elimination reaction transforms, under the action of a base, a substituted alkane (haloalkane, alcohol, etc.) into an alkene. \n\nIn contrast to the E1 type elimination reaction, there is no reaction intermediate for the E2 type reaction. The E2 reaction is carried out in a single step: the base removes a proton from the alkane, which releases a pair of electrons to form a second bond between two carbon atoms and allows the substituent to detach from the alkane.;2;1;In one step;In two steps;;;
L;Is the evaporation of water endothermic or exothermic?;The evaporation of a liquid ( transition from liquid state to gaseous state), absorbs energy (heat), so it is an endothermic reaction. \n\nThus the water evaporation heat (at 25 degrees Celsius temperature and atmospheric pressure) is 44 kJ / mol. This explains why perspiration is effective. The sweat evaporation removes heat from your body.;2;1;Endothermic;Exothermic;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of a reaction that, being able to give several configuration stereoisomers, gives some of them predominantly ?;In organic chemistry, a reaction is called stereoselective if, being able to give several configuration stereoisomers, it gives some of them predominantly (or exclusively).\n\n A reaction is called stereospecific if the products configuration depends on that of the reagents;2;1;Stereoselective reaction;Stereospecific reaction;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of a reaction whose configuration of products depends on that of the reagents?;In organic chemistry, a reaction is called stereoselective if, being able to give several configuration stereoisomers, it gives some of them predominantly (or exclusively).\n\n A reaction is called stereospecific if the products configuration depends on that of the reagents;2;2;Stereoselective reaction;Stereospecific reaction;;;
L;What is the name of the temperature above which a body remains in the gaseous state whatever the pressure?;The temperature of the transition "liquid state - gaseous state" of a body increases with the pressure until reaching a temperature called critical temperature. \n\nBut, beyond its critical temperature, the body will remain at the gaseous state whatever the pressure. Thus, beyond this critical temperature, no pressure can prevent the liquid from evaporating by boiling. Thus, the critical temperature of the water is 374 degrees Celcius;4;3;Boiling temperature;Limit temperature;Critical temperature;Steam temperature;
L;Gneiss is a metamorphic rock that can be be derived from sedimentary or granitic rock. When it comes from a granitic rock, it is called:;Gneiss is a metamorphic rock that can be derived from sandstone or granite. It is a rock with foliation and ribbon (alternation of light and dark layers). The clear layers contain quartz and feldspar while the dark layers contain black mica. A particular form of gneiss where feldspars persist in non-flattened form is called augen gneiss. \n\nIf the gneiss comes from a granite rock, it is called orthogneiss, if it comes from a sedimentary rock, it is called paragneiss. \n\nWe usually find gneiss in the deep parts, eroded, mountain ranges.;2;1;orthogneiss;paragneiss;;;
L;Gneiss is a metamorphic rock that can be derived from sedimentary or granitic rock. When it comes from a sedimentary rock, it is called:;Gneiss is a metamorphic rock that can be derived from sandstone or granite. It is a rock with foliation and ribbon (alternation of light and dark layers). The clear layers contain quartz and feldspar while the dark layers contain black mica. A particular form of gneiss where feldspars persist in non-flattened form is called augen gneiss. \n\nIf the gneiss comes from a granite rock, it is called orthogneiss, if it comes from a sedimentary rock, it is called paragneiss. \n\nWe usually find gneiss in the deep parts, eroded, mountain ranges.;2;2;orthogneiss;paragneiss;;;
L;What is the type of a plant cell?;The plant cell is of autotrophic type: It is able to synthesize its organic constituents from mineral compounds. The chlorophyllian plant cells are autotrophic because their chloroplasts allow them to carry out photosynthesis. Some bacteria, such as cyanobacteria, are also autotrophic. \n\nThe animal cell and the fungi cell are heterotrophic: They must use organic molecules already synthesized to make their own organic matter.;2;1;autotrophic;heterotrophic;;;
L;What is the type of an animal cell?;The animal cell and the mushroom cell are of heterotrophic type: They must use organic molecules already synthesized to make their own organic material. \n\nThe plant cell is autotrophic type: It is able to synthesize its organic constituents from of mineral compounds. The chlorophyllian plant cells are autotrophic because their chloroplasts allow them to carry out photosynthesis. Some bacteria, such as cyanobacteria, are also autotrophic.;2;2;autotrophic;heterotrophic;;;
L;In botany, what is the name of the grouping of several flowers at the end of the same peduncle?;In many plants, the flowers are an inflorescence, that is to say that several flowers are grouped at the end of the same peduncle. This is the case, for example, for daisies or sunflowers. \n\nContrary to what the common language indicates, what is called "flower" in these plants, corresponds, in reality, to many small flowers tight on the same floral receptacle. \n\nAs each peripheral flower has a single petal, while the central flowers don't have, the inflorescence seems to be a simple flower.;4;2;A bouquet;An inflorescence;A chalice;A corolla;
L;In botany, to which family do conifers belong?;Conifers are gymnosperms, which belong to the spermaphyte branch. \n\nSpermaphytes are seed plants, which are characterized, as their name indicates, by the formation of seeds at the end of sexual reproduction. \n\nGymnosperms are characterized by bare seeds, that is to say, not included in a fruit.;2;1;gymnosperms;angiosperms;;;
L;In botany, to which family do the flowering plants belong?;The flowering plants are angiosperms, which belong to the spermaphyte branch. \n\nSpermaphytes are seed plants, which are characterized, as their name indicates, by the formation of seeds at the end of sexual reproduction. \n\nAngiosperms are characterized by the transformation, after fertilization, from the ovaries into fruits that contain the seeds.;2;2;gymnosperms;angiosperms;;;
L;which of these vegetables is actually a fruit?;In the botany vocabulry, the fruit and vegetable words have a precise meaning. The fruit is the organ containing the seeds that results from the transformation of the ovary of the flower following fertilization. A vegetable is the dehiscent dry fruit (that is, which opens at maturity to release its seeds) of some plants species, in particular that of the fabaceae (formerly known as legumes), the family to which the beans and peas belong. \n\nThis is not the same in everyday language. In the food field, we speak of vegetables to indistinctly designate various vegetable that are usually eaten salted as garnishes. It can be stems (leek, fennel), leaves (spinach, cabbage, salads), fruits (tomato, green beans, zucchini, eggplant), seeds (peas, white beans), roots (carrots), buds (asparagus), inflorescences (cauliflower)..., while the word fruit of everyday language simply means sweet-tasting fruits, usually consumed as a dessert. But all fruits, in the botanical sense, are not necessarily sweet, such as green beans, zucchini, eggplants ..., and the botanical meaning of the fruit and vegetable words should not be equated with that of everyday language. .;4;2;carrot;green bean;cauliflower;leek;
L;Seed plants include flowering plants and:;In plants, seed plants belong to the spermaphytes branch and are characterized, as their name indicates, by the formation of seeds at the end of sexual reproduction. There are 2 sub-branches gymnosperms and angiosperms. \n\nThe gymnosperms are mainly conifers and are characterized by bare seeds, that is to say, not included in a fruit. \n\nThe angiosperms are flowering plants whose seeds are protected in a closed fruit.;4;2;Ferns;Conifers;Moss;Seaweeds;
L;Which of these types of plants produce spores for their reproduction;Ferns, like mosses, produce spores that are released and scattered by the wind. Then these spores germinate when the weather conditions are favorable: heat and above all, humidity. They give a gametophyte, a tiny organism, carrying two types of reproductive organs: antheridia, which contain the male gametes (antherozoids), and archegonia, which contain the female gametes (oospheres). The antherozoids fertilize the oospheres and from this union is born a new fern.;3;3;Flowering plants;Conifers;Ferns;;
L;Is coral a plant?;Coral is a tiny marine animal: the polyp, belonging to cnidarians family, which absorbs plankton from warm seas. The polyp, is a very simple animal, mainly formed of a mouth and a stomach. The mouth of each polyp is turned outward and can capture some of the food directly or through the tentacles around it. \n\nIt retains in its body small algae called zooxanthellae with which it has a symbiotic relationship: the animal brings shelter, the plant brings a supplement of food thanks to the photosynthesis. \n\nIt would go unnoticed if he did not live in a colony of thousands of individuals of the same species (because there are different corals). They secrete together, under their living tissue, limestone that unites and protects them. Throughout the centuries, corals have formed enormous rock masses, called coral reefs in clear, warm, shallow seas. Sometimes the reef has formed a circular barrier that isolates an island from the ocean. It's called an atoll. This barrier breaks the waves before they reach the coast. It protects the island and the people living there from storms and coastal erosion.;2;2;yes;No;;;
L;Is sea anemone an animal or a plant?;Sea anemones form an order of marine animals living fixed on the rocks. \n\nThe sea anemone is a close relative of the corals, but it has no skeleton. It is a polyp, that is to say an animal that lives fixed, with a mouth adorned with tentacles. The sea anemones are attached to the rock by a kind of sucker. Several sea anemones are able to break away from the rock, and float to hang on farther. \n\nBy relation to corals, which have very small polyps, the sea anemones are rather big. In general, sea anemones live alone, but there are some that live in groups, such as corals.;3;1;An animal;A plant;Neither an animal nor a plant;;
L;Why are corals of different colors?;Corals live in symbiosis with a microscopic algae, called zooxanthellae, which lives inside the tissue that surrounds the coral. \n\nThese are the pigments contained in these algae (and which vary according to the algae species) that give the beautiful color of the corals. \n\nWithout these algae, the coral can not live. We talk about bleaching corals when they are sick or die because without algae, there is no more pigment and the skeleton reveals its white color, whatever the species.;2;1;It is the microscopic algae that they contain that give them their colors;These are the minerals of their external skeletons that give them their colors;;;
L;Coral is an animal of the same family as anemones and jellyfish. What is this family?;Cnidarians are a branch of aquatic animals (mainly marine). They come in two forms: when they are fixed, they are polyps (this is the case of coral or sea anemones), when they are swimmers, then they are jellyfish. \n\nCnidarians exist for hundreds of millions of years, at least since the Cambrian. They are characterized by their stinging cells, called cnidocytes, which release their venom at the slightest touch. The body, very rich in water, is a kind of bag in the hollow of which is a gastric cavity, with a single opening making both office mouth and anus, surrounded by a row of venomous tentacles. These animals feed on phytoplankton, zooplankton and small animals.;4;3;echinoderms;arthropods;cnidarians;annelids;
L;In botany, what is the name of all the petals of a flower?;The petal is a floral piece that surrounds the reproductive system of flowers. All the petals form the corolla. \n\nThe petals pigmentation, with the perfume and the nectar, is part of the pollinator attraction strategies: the colors (not necessarily bright) displayed by large solitary or isolated flowers as well as by inflorescences of small flowers, are due to the accumulation of pigments that provide an optical signal or produce heat, favoring pollinators visiting the flowers.;3;1;The corolla;The calyx;The perianth;;
L;In botany, what is the name of all the sepals of a flower?;The sepals are the foliate structures located at the base of the corolla, under the petals. They are usually green. All the sepals form the calyx of the flower. \n\nWhen they look like petals (case of the tulip), they are called tepals.;3;2;The corolla;The calyx;The perianth;;
L;In botany, what is the perianth?;The perianth is the set of envelopes that protect the reproductive organs of the flower (stamens and pistil). It includes the calyx composed of sepals and which provides a protective function and incidentally a chlorophyllian function, and the corolla composed of petals (thin and colored blades) that can attract pollinating animals;3;3;The set of petals of the flower;The set of sepals of the flower;The calyx (set of sepals) and the corolla (set of petals);;
L;In a plant, what are the vessels that carry the raw sap from the roots to the leaves?;The raw sap consists of water and mineral salts that rises from the roots into the leaves. This is where photosynthesis takes place. Organic matter rich in energy (glucose) is made using solar energy. The vessels carrying the raw sap are called xylem.;2;1;xylem;phloem;;;
L;In a plant, what are the vessels that carry the elaborated sap produced by the leaves in all the plant cells?;The elaborated sap consists of water and nutrients (glucose) produced in the leaves by photosynthesis. It will be used to build buds, flowers, fruits, food reserves (starch). The vessels carrying the elaborate sap are called phloem.;2;2;xylem;phloem;;;
L;In botany, in flowering plants, the seed comes from the fertilization of an egg by:;Fertilization is the formation of an egg resulting from the fusion of the male and female reproductive cells. Fertilization occurs as a result of pollination, when pollen grains have been deposited on the stigma, the terminal part of the pistil. Pollen grains adhere to the stigma because of the sticky taste buds that cover it. Once glued to the stigma, the pollen grain germinates by producing a tube, the pollen tube, which extends through the pistil tissues to reach the embryonic sac containing the egg. \n\nThe pollen tube allows establish the stigma-egg junction and the deposition of two spermatozoa in the embryonic sac. While a spermatozoon fertilizes the oosphere (female gamete), which will become an embryo, the other fertilises the two nuclei of the large central cell of the embryonic sac. This will become a starch-rich tissue, called endosperm, a nutritive reserve for the future seed. This union of two spermatozoa with two different cells of the embryonic sac is called double fertilization. This double fertilization makes it possible to synchronize, within the seed itself, the development of a nutritive reserve, with the development of an embryo. Endosperm is formed only if the oosphere has been fertilized. There is no waste of nutrients.;4;2;One spermatozoon;Two spermatozoon;Three spermatozoon;Four spermatozoon;
L;In botany, plant reproduction can be:;Flowering plants have two types of reproduction: Sexual reproduction and asexual reproduction. \n\nSexual reproduction is by seed. Originally, two sexual cells (male and female) produced by the parent reproductive organs (stamen for the male and pistil for the female) merge: it is the fertilization, which causes the transformation of the flower into fruit containing the seed . It thus bears the genetic inheritance of both "parents". \n\nAsexual reproduction (or vegetative reproduction) is a form of reproduction in which part of the vegetative system (the non-reproductive part of the plant), root,stem or leaf, is likely to give birth to a whole plant. Since vegetative propagation does not involve any sexual phenomenon, the resulting plant is genetically identical to the parent plant. ;3;3;sexual;asexual;both sexual and asexual;;
L;In botany, what are the names of the plants whose seeds are naked under the scales of a cone.;Gymnosperms (mainly conifers) are characterized by bare seeds, not included in a fruit. \n\nIn gymnosperms, the reproductive organs are called cones. \n\nFemale cones, small in size, consist of an axis bearing scales to which are attached two bare eggs, which are not included in a carpel, unlike those of angiosperms. \n\nMale cones are similar in organization with an axis bearing scales. Each scale has two pollen sacs in which the pollen forms and thus correspond to the stamens of angiosperm flowers. At maturity, pollen escapes from the pollen sacs and the balloons pair on each pollen grain facilitates its transport by wind.;2;2;angiosperms;gymnosperms;;;
L;In botany, what are the names of the plants whose seeds are protected in a closed fruit.;Angiosperms are flowering plants and are characterized by their enclosed eggs in a specialized organ called carpel. The sets of carpels are called ovaries. After fertilization, the eggs are transformed into seeds and are enclosed in a fruit resulting from the ovary transformation. \n\nIf the angiosperms flowers are, most often, hermaphrodites, with both male and female organs, there are also flowering plant species with separate sexes, some with male flowers, others with female flowers. \n\nUnlike conifers cones, the angiosperms flower generally has four different types of floral pieces, two types of sterile pieces, the sepals and the petals, surrounding two types of fertile pieces, respectively called stamens (male) and pistils (female).;2;1;angiosperms;gymnosperms;;;
L;In botany, to which group belong the plants whose leaves are characterized by parallel veins?;In a seed, the cotyledon is the first leaf (primordial or germinal leaf) that is formed and present during germination. \n\nPlants with single cotyledon seeds are called monocotyledons and are characterized by parallel veins of their leaves, as in grasses (wheat, maize, rice) or liliaceae (lily, tulip).;2;1;monocotyledons;dicotyledons;;;
L;In botany, to which group belong the plants whose leaves are characterized by branched veins?;In a seed, the cotyledon is the first leaf (primordial or germinal leaf) that is formed and present during germination. \n\nPlants with two cotyledons are called dicotyledons and are characterized by branched veins of their leaves. This group contains the greatest diversity of species.;2;2;monocotyledons;dicotyledons;;;
L;In plant biology, what is the name of the tissues responsible for plant growth?;The tissues are formed from meristems, organized masses of undifferentiated young cells that are the seat of active divisions. There are two types of meristems: \n\nThe primary meristems, of embryonic origin, located at stems and roots apex, as well as at the base of leaves (at the the axillary buds level). They ensure the growth in stems length, in roots length, the branches formation and form the primary tissues (the primary structure). \n\nThe secondary meristems, phellogen and cambium, appear after the primary meristems. They ensure the growth in thickness and generate the secondary tissues which form the secondary structure. This type of growth is peculiar to woody plants. Thus it is the cambium which is responsible for the formation of the secondary xylem which is the trees wood,;4;3;collenchyma;Parenchymal tissues;Meristems;Sclerenchyma;
L;In a tree, where is located the dead wood (composed of dead cells)?;The wood, located under the tree bark, consists of an organic tissue called secondary xylem which ensures the conduction of the raw sap captured by the roots. \n\nThe wood located in the central part of the trunk contains older wood than at the periphery. It is composed of dead cells and is called heartwood while the wood on the periphery is alive and is called sapwood. \n\nThe sapwood is light in color while the heartwood is darker.;2;1;In the central part of the tree;At the tree periphery;;;
L;In a tree, where is located the alive wood (composed of living cells)?;The wood, located under the tree bark, consists of an organic tissue called secondary xylem which ensures the conduction of the raw sap captured by the roots. \n\nThe wood located in the central part of the trunk contains older wood than at the periphery. It is composed of dead cells and is called heartwood while the wood on the periphery is alive and is called sapwood. \n\nThe sapwood is light in color while the heartwood is darker.;2;2;In the central part of the tree;At the tree periphery;;;
L;In botany, what is geotropism?;In botany, geotropism characterizes the growth orientation of some organs (stem, root) with respect to gravity: positive geotropism is from top to bottom and negative geotropism is from bottom to top. \n\nThe plant root has a positive geotropism while the stem has a negative geotropism.;2;1;Growth orientation of some organs (stem, root) with respect to gravity;Attraction or repulsion of growing organs in relation to light;;;
L;In botany, what is phototropism?;Phototropism is the phenomenon of attraction or repulsion of growing organs in relation to light (solar or artificial): positive phototropism is attraction and negative phototropism is repulsion. \n\nThe plant root has a negative phototropism while the stem has a positive phototropism.;2;2;Growth orientation of some organs (stem, root) with respect to gravity;Attraction or repulsion of growing organs in relation to light;;;
L;Wood (of a tree) is composed mainly of cellulose and another molecule. What is this other molecule?;It is the very thick walls of its cells that give the wood its properties. Its walls are formed of two main constituents, cellulose and lignin. \n\nCellulose, a major constituent of the cell wall of wood, is a carbohydrate, a polymer of cellobiose, itself being a combination of two glucoses. The cellulose molecules are bonded together by hydrogen bonds to form extremely strong fibers that ensure the wood's strength and elasticity. \n\nLignin is a polymer of phenyl-propane type molecules and is associated with cellulose to form the cell walls of wood. Lignin gives the wood new properties and in particular a great hydrophobicity. The hydrophobicity of the lignin is a major element of the good flow of the sap and allows the dried wood to float because it does not imbibe water.;4;2;starch;lignin;glucose;glycogen;
L;In botany, what is a pivoting root system?;In a pivoting root system, the main root has a greater length and diameter than ramifications. It is characteristic of Dicotyledonous Angiosperms and Gymnosperms. \n\nIn a fasciculated root system, it is difficult to distinguish the main root from the ramifications. All the roots of this system have a more or less equal diameter. It is characteristic of Angiosperms Monocotyledonous.;2;1;Root system where the main root has greater length and diameter than ramifications;Root system where it is difficult to distinguish the main root from the ramifications;;;
L;In botany, what is a fasciculated root system?;In a fasciculated root system, it is difficult to distinguish the main root from the ramifications. All the roots of this system have a more or less equal diameter. It is characteristic of Angiosperms Monocotyledonous. \n\nIn a pivoting root system, the main root has a larger length and diameter than ramifications. It is characteristic of Angiosperms Dicotyledonous and Gymnosperms.;2;2;Root system where the main root has greater length and diameter than ramifications;Root system where it is difficult to distinguish the main root from the ramifications;;;
L;Are potatoes rhizome tubers or root tubers?;The potato is a rhizome tuber and a rhizome is an underground stem that accumulates reserve substances. \n\nA rhizome sometimes looks like a root. A rhizome is recognized because it has buds, which is not the case of a root.;2;1;Rhizome tubers;Root tubers;;;
L;Is ginger a rhizome tuber or a root tuber?;Ginger is a horizontal underground stem, stocked with reserves, called rhizome. It is a stem and not a root because it has buds of future branches.;2;1;A rhizome tuber;A root tuber;;;
L;Plants cannot live without:;As for all living species, water is an essential element for plant life. \n\nEarth and light are not essential elements for some plants: \n\nEpiphytic plants do not need soil, they grow on other plants, not in the soil. They have hanging aerial roots, which absorb the atmospheric water through perforations in their walls. \n\nNon-chlorophyllous plants do not need light to grow. These plants do not do photosynthesis to produce their organic matter. These are parasites such as orobanche, for example, which depends on a host plant for its organic matter supply.;3;2;earth;water;light;;
L;In botany, what is the name of the following vegetative propagation technique: placing a piece of stem in the water until the appearance of roots?;Cuttings consists of reproducing a plant by isolating an organ or organ fragment that is placed in water or soil. Once roots are formed, a new individual develops. Plant hormone preparations can be used to facilitate cuttings. \n\nCuttings can be made from young stems in a large number of species (geranium, wicker, rose, willow, currant, forsythia, yucca...) or from leaves (begonia, Saintpaulia). However, some species cannot reproduce by cuttings.;3;1;cuttings;layering;grafting;;
L;In botany, what is the name of the vegetative multiplication technique, which consists of forcing a stem to bend into the ground to produce roots?;Layering can be forced on certain species, such as the vine or the carnation, by burying a stem still carried by the plant. When roots, then a new stem develop, the new plant is separated from the mother plant.;3;2;cuttings;layering;grafting;;
L;In botany, what is the name of the vegetative propagation technique, which consists in placing small branches of a shrub on another more vigorous tree?;Grafting is mainly used to multiply fruit trees. It consists of inserting a stem or bud (graft) on a tree or shrub of a close species or a more robust variety (rootstock) so as to bring the tissues of the two plants into close contact until that connections are established between their conducting vessels. \n\nThis method makes it possible to multiply a plant of interest, for example producing large fruits, taking advantage of the qualities of the rootstock, such as vigor or resistance. We multiply some pear trees by grafting their branches on a trunk of quince,;3;3;cuttings;layering;grafting;;
L;In botany, how are defined the names of plants?;In botany, the official name of a plant is composed of the following three latin names: family name + genus name + species name. \n\nThe family name is optional because the genus names are unique. These are often derived from the most representative species of the genus. The species name is a qualifier for distinguishing plants in the genus. \n\nExamples: \n\n [Papaveraceae] Papaver rhoeas -" red poppy \n [Papaveraceae] Papaver somniferium -" the opium poppy;3;2;family name + species name + genus name;family name + genus name + species name;class name + family name + species name;;
L;Which optical phenomenon leads to a limitation to the resolving power and thus to the magnification of optical microscopes;The limitation to the magnification of an optical microscope is related to the light diffraction phenomenon. \n\nIn theory, an ideal lens should produce an image where each point of the object is represented by a point in the image. In reality, each point of the image is represented by a diffusion disk in the image plane. This diffusion disc is due to the diffraction phenomenon induced by the lens diaphragm and its diameter is proportional to the light wavelength. \n\nFor objects whose size is less than this wavelength, this diffraction phenomenon blurs the object image provided by the microscope. The wavelengths of the visible light being of a few hundred nanometers, the maximum resolution of the optical microscope is of the same order, barely smaller than the micrometer;2;2;Refraction;Diffraction;;;
L;In botany, what is the name of a fleshy stone fruit?;A drupe is a fleshy fruit with a stone containing the seed, such as a cherry, an apricot, or a walnut. The stone containing the seed is called almond in botany. \n\nThe pericarp of the drupe(plant organ containing the seed) is composed of a fleshy part (the mesocarp covered with an external epidermis called the epicarp), and a stone, the endocarp, containing the seed. \n\nThis is usually the fleshy part of the drupe which is edible (cherry, apricot) but in some cases the edible part is the seed (nuts);4;1;a drupe;a berry;a legume;a capsule;
L;In botany, what is the name of a fruit with pips?;A berry, in botany, is a type of fleshy fruit containing one or more seeds. Its pericarp (plant organ containing the seeds) is composed from the outside towards the inside by a very fine epicarp, a fleshy mesocarp and a fleshy endocarp, which differentiates it from the drupe in which endocarp is sclerified (stone). \n\nExamples: tomato, melon, grape, orange, watermelon;4;2;a drupe;a berry;a legume;a capsule;
L;In botany, what is the name of a fruit whose receptacle (swelling end of the floral peduncle) is edible?;A accessory fruit is a fruit whose receptacle that supports or surrounds the fruit is edible. \n\nExamples of accessory fruits are the following: \n\nThe apple, or the pear, comes from an inferior ovary, which is located below the rest of the flower and, consequently, surrounded by the floral receptacle. After fertilization, the receptacle develops at the same time as the fruit. The apple or the pear are therefore a pom, a combination of a fleshy fruit and a fleshy receptacle. \n\nThe rosehips is the result of the development of the red receptacle containing the fruits of the rosebush and the rosehips . \n\nThe strawberry is the result of the floral receptacle development, and the fruits are the small yellow achenes that are observed on the surface;4;4;a drupe;a berry;a legume;an accessory fruit;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dried fruit formed by an isolated carpel with a single opening slot?;A follicle is a dry, dehiscent fruit (which opens spontaneously), formed by an isolated carpel. \n\nThe dehiscence is done according to a single longitudinal slit (unlike the legume) which is the suture line of the carpel and forms two valves which open by dividing the placental line in two. The seeds attached to them are found on the edge of each valve. \n\nExample: star anise.;4;1;a follicle;a silique;a legume;a capsule;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dried fruit formed by a carpel with two opening slots?;A legume is a dry, dehiscent fruit (which opens spontaneously) with two opening slots, the two slots isolating two valves that each carry a row of seeds.  \n\nExamples: beans, peas, lentils.;4;3;a follicle;a silique;a legume;a capsule;
L;What type of fruit is pineapple?;The pineapple fruit is a multiple fruit. It corresponds to the whole of an inflorescence become fleshy. The axis of the inflorescence, the floral bracts and the inferior ovaries of the different flowers are welded together. We can therefore speak of an infructescence.;3;3;simple fruit;accessory fruit;multiple fruit;;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dry fruit formed by two or more welded carpels?;When the dry fruit is formed by two or more welded carpels, the opening is made by dehiscence slits. These are formed either at the level of the placental sutures, or at the level of the median ribs of the carpels. \n\nIn many cases, the dehiscence can be performed not with slits but with pores (example of the poppy) or with teeth (example of the carnation).;4;4;a follicle;a silique;a legume;a capsule;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dry fruit formed by two welded carpels separated by a partition where the seeds are fixed?;In a silique, the ovary is formed by two fused carpels. During ripening of the fruit, an additional partition develops between the opposite placentas forming two lodges. The fruit then becomes bilocular. \n\nWhen the two outer valves separate, the seeds remain attached to the extra bulkhead and come off. \n\nExamples: mustard, cabbage.;4;2;a follicle;a silique;a legume;a capsule;
L;What is the property of an object that emits light while it is lit?;Fluorescence and phosphorescence consist of the emission of light (photon) due to the desexcitation of a molecule that has been brought to this excited state by light absorption (photon). Fluorescence and phosphorescence are two different forms of photoluminescence which differ in particular by the duration of the emission after excitation: the fluorescence ceases very rapidly while the phosphorescence persists longer. In both cases, the re-emitted light has a wavelength greater than that of the light absorbed.;2;2;phosphorescent;fluorescent;;;
L;What is the property of an object that continues to emit light after being lit?;Fluorescence and phosphorescence consist of the emission of light (photon) due to the desexcitation of a molecule that has been brought to this excited state by light absorption (photon). Fluorescence and phosphorescence are two different forms of photoluminescence which differ in particular by the duration of the emission after excitation: the fluorescence ceases very rapidly while the phosphorescence persists longer. In both cases, the re-emitted light has a wavelength greater than that of the light absorbed.;2;1;phosphorescent;fluorescent;;;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dry, indehiscent fruit (which does not open at maturity), whose seed is not soldered to the fruit?;The most general type of indehiscent dry fruit is achene: it is a simple fruit. The dry pericarp envelops a single box (unilocular ovary) which contains only one seed. It is the achene that is disseminated with the seed that it contains. \n\nThis type of fruit can be made from ovaries formed of several carpels of which only one develops. Example: chestnut. \n\nA flower may have one or more carpels. When each of them develops in achene, one obtains diakenes (Umbelliferae), or tetrakenes (Labiate). In general, these achene associations separate at maturity. When many achenes develop in the same flower (polyakene), it is called multiple fruits. Examples: Rennunculaceae, lamiaceae. \n\nAkenes may have morphological peculiarities: for example, the feathery achenes of dandelion or the winged achenes (samaras) of maple.;4;3;a follicle;a silique;an achene;a caryopsis;
L;In botany, what is the name of a dry, indehiscent fruit (which does not open at maturity), whose unique seed is soldered to the fruit?;A caryopsis is a dry, indehiscent fruit (which does not open at maturity), whose unique seed is soldered to the pericarp of the fruit. It is therefore the caryopsis which is used as seed. This is the characteristic fruit of the Poaceae family (Gramineae). \n\nExamples: wheat, rice, corn;4;4;a follicle;a silique;an achene;a caryopsis;
L;In botany, what is the name of a fruit from a flower containing several carpels, each giving a fruit after fertilization?;A single fruit is formed only by the ovarian envelope. This is the case when the flower contains an ovary consisting of a carpel or several fused carpels. \n\nWhen the flower contains several free carpels, after fertilization each carpel gives a simple fruit and the same flower then develops several simple fruits . We can then distinguish polyakenes, poly-drupes, poly-follicles, depending on the type of unit fruit. It is then an aggregate fruit. \n\nExamples: buttercup (polyakene), raspberry (poly-drupe);3;1;an aggregate fruit;an accessory fruit;a multiple fruit;;
L;Deciduous trees lose their leaves in autumn. Is the loss of leaves delayed in case of a very hot autumn?;Falling leaves of deciduous trees occur in autumn at a specific date characteristic of each species regardless of climatic conditions (temperature for example). The signal triggering the fall of the leaves is the decrease in the length of the day.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;Are leaves of evergreen trees everlasting?;The leaves of evergreen trees are not eternal. Just look at the ground at the foot of a pine to observe a layer of needles. The leaves fall well but they sometimes live several years and fall continuously regardless of the season.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;In organic chemistry, which product is obtained by the hydration of an alkene in an acid medium?;In an acidic alkene hydration reaction, water is added at the carbon-carbon double bond with an OH group on one bonding side and a hydrogen atom on the other side. The final product obtained is an alcohol. \n\nThe addition of the OH group obey the rule of Markovnikov, it is added to the most substituted carbon.;4;2;An ester;An alcohol;A ketone;An aldehyde;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of an addition reaction in which the two substituents are added on the same side of the carbon-carbon multiple bond?;In organic chemistry, the syn and anti additions are the different possibilities that two substituents have for adding on a double bond or a triple bond. A syn add is the addition of the two substituents on the same side of the multiple bond. An example of syn addition is the hydrogenation reaction of alkenes. The two hydrogen atoms from the gaseous dihydrogen are added to the same side of the carbon-carbon double bond. \n\nIn contrast, in an anti addition, the two substituents add up on both sides of the multiple bond. An example of an anti addition is the dihalogenation reaction of alkenes. The two halogen atoms are added on either side of the carbon-carbon double bond.;2;1;syn addition;anti addition;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of an addition reaction where the two substituents are added on either side of the carbon-carbon multiple bond?;In organic chemistry, the syn and anti additions are the different possibilities that two substituents have for adding on a double bond or a triple bond. A syn add is the addition of the two substituents on the same side of the multiple bond. An example of syn addition is the hydrogenation reaction of alkenes. The two hydrogen atoms from the gaseous dihydrogen are added to the same side of the carbon-carbon double bond. \n\nIn contrast, in an anti addition, the two substituents add up on both sides of the multiple bond. An example of an anti addition is the dihalogenation reaction of alkenes. The two halogen atoms are added on either side of the carbon-carbon double bond.;2;2;syn addition;anti addition;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of a covalent bond in which the two orbitals that associate to form the covalent bond overlap on the same axis pointing towards each other.;sigma bond is a covalent bond in which the two orbitals that associate to form the covalent bond overlap on the same axis pointing toward each other. This is the strongest of the covalent bonds. \n\nA pi bond is a covalent bond between two p-type orbitals, parallel to each other, that have a lateral overlap to form the bond. \n\nExamples: \n\nWhen One carbon atom forms four single bonds with four neighboring atoms, these four bonds are sigma bonds. When two carbon atoms form a double bond, one bond is a sigma bond and the other is a pi bond;2;1;sigma bond;pi bond;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of a covalent bond between two parallel orbitals that have a lateral overlap to form the bond.;sigma bond is a covalent bond in which the two orbitals that associate to form the covalent bond overlap on the same axis pointing toward each other. This is the strongest of the covalent bonds. \n\nA pi bond is a covalent bond between two p-type orbitals, parallel to each other, that have a lateral overlap to form the bond. \n\nExamples: \n\nWhen One carbon atom forms four single bonds with four neighboring atoms, these four bonds are sigma bonds. When two carbon atoms form a double bond, one bond is a sigma bond and the other is a pi bond;2;2;sigma bond;pi bond;;;
L;How does the boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon vary with the length of its carbon chain?;The longer the carbon chain of a hydrocarbon, the higher its boiling point. Indeed, the greater the length of the carbon chain, the greater the number of van der Waals interactions between the molecules is important and therefore the more difficult it is to break them, hence the increase in the boiling temperature. \n\nExamples: the boiling point of methane (CH4) is -160 degrees C., that of pentane (C5H12) is 36 degrees C. and that of octane (C8H18) is 126 degrees C.;2;1;The boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon increases with its length;The boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon decreases with its length;;;
L;How does the boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon vary with the size of its branches?;The more the carbon chain of a hydrocarbon is branched, the lower its boiling point. Indeed, the more the chain is branched, the more the molecules take up space and the less they will be able to approach each other, so the less van der Waals interactions between these molecules will be important and therefore the easier it is to break them, hence the decrease in the boiling temperature. \n\nExamples: the boiling temperature of hexane (no branching) is 68.7 degrees C., that of 2-ethylpentane (one branch) is 63 degrees C. and that of 2,3-dimethylbutane (two branches) is 60 degrees C.;2;2;The boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon increases with the importance of its branches;The boiling temperature of a hydrocarbon decreases with the importance of its branches;;;
L;Which of these two types of cells can produce energy by glucose degradation even in the absence of oxygen?;Lactic fermentation is the transformation of glucose (a sugar) into lactic acid with release of energy in the form of ATP molecules. The lactic fermentation process is carried out in the absence of oxygen. \n\nThe human cells use cellular respiration and not lactic fermentation for the transformation of glucose in water and carbon dioxide with release of energy in the form of ATP molecules. \n\nHowever, lactic fermentation can also occur in muscle cells during sprint-type physical exertion (eg 800 meters), when the intense contraction of the muscles requires a lot of energy and the oxygen does not have time to reach the muscle. This expenditure of energy nevertheless has a price. The accumulation of lactic acid induces muscular fatigue which limits the duration of such efforts.;2;2;Neurons;Muscle cells.;;;
L;Cellular respiration and fermentation begin with the same stage of biochemical reactions. What is this step called?;Cellular respiration and fermentation (aloolic and lactic) begin with the same biochemical reaction step called glycolysis that takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell. During this stage the glucose is converted into pyruvate. For cellular respiration, subsequent biochemical reactions take place inside the mitochondria of the cell and ultimately produce carbon dioxide and water. For fermentation, subsequent biochemical reactions always take place within the cytoplasm of the cell. Alcoholic fermentation ultimately produces ethanol and carbon dioxide while lactic fermentation produces lactic acid.;3;2;Oxidative phosphorylation;Glycolysis;The Krebs cycle;;
L;In the bread manufacture the sugars contained in the flour are transformed by fermentation. What type of fermentation is it?;To make bread, one needs flour, water, and baker's yeast (unicellular fungus). Baker's yeast produces an alcoholic fermentation that converts sugars naturally present in flour into alcohol (ethanol) and carbon dioxide. \n\nThe gas thus produced during cooking causes the dough to swell. Ethanol formed evaporates during cooking and bread does not contain alcohol.;2;1;Alcoholic fermentation;Lactic fermentation;;;
L;In the bread manufacture the sugars contained in the flour are transformed by fermentation. Why does not bread contain alcohol?;To make bread, one needs flour, water, and baker's yeast (unicellular fungus). Baker's yeast produces an alcoholic fermentation that converts sugars naturally present in flour into alcohol (ethanol) and carbon dioxide. \n\nThe gas thus produced during cooking causes the dough to swell. Ethanol formed evaporates during cooking and bread does not contain alcohol.;2;2;Because it is a lactic fermentation and not an alcoholic fermentation;Because alcohol evaporates when baking bread;;;
L;There are two types of alcoholic beverages: Fermented drinks and distilled beverages. What type are strong alcohols like whiskey or rum?;Distilled drinks are the richest in pure alcohol. The distilled beverages are initially subjected to the same fermentation process as fermented beverages such as wine. Subsequently, the liquid obtained is distilled. This operation consists in recovering the alcohol by heating then condensation. We then obtain very high alcohol products.;2;2;Fermented drinks;Distilled beverages;;;
L;Why are there bubbles in the champagne and not in the wine?;Champagne, unlike wine, requires different stages of manufacture. To begin with, the winemakers undertake the same work as for a "normal" wine, namely the harvest, fermentation, bottling, blending ... What differentiates wine from champagne is the second fermentation in the bottle. Yeasts turn sugar into carbon dioxide, which remains trapped in the bottle and dissolves in the wine.;2;1;Because the bubbles are formed by the carbon dioxide produced during the second fermentation stage of champagne in closed bottles;Because the alcoholic fermentation for champagne produces much more carbon dioxide than for wine;;;
L;Why do wines always have an alcohol degree of about 10 to 12 degrees?;The alcohol degree of the wines is, overall, similar from one vintage to another. In France, wines usually have 10 to 12% alcohol. Indeed, when the yeasts, which are responsible for the alcoholic fermentation of the grapes, absorb between 16 and 18 grams of sugar, they produce 1 centilitre of pure alcohol. As in a liter of grape juice there are 200 grams of sugar, it represents between 10 and 12% of alcohol.;2;2;Because it's a regulation that sets the alcohol degree for wine;This alcohol degree is related to the amount of sugar contained in the grape juice.;;;
L;Can we make white wine with red grapes?;The color of the wine is not due to the color of the grape juice because it is almost always white. The color of the wine comes in fact from the maceration of the skins in the juice in fermentation. It is therefore the color of the skin of the grape that gives the color of the wine. \n\nThus, it is possible to make white wine with red grapes if we do not let the macerate the skins with the juice . This is for example the case of champagne, which is developed among other things from grape varieties such as pinot noir and pinot meunier, which are red grape varieties. On the other hand, it is not possible to make red wine with white grapes.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Can we make red wine with white grapes?;The color of the wine is not due to the color of the grape juice because it is almost always white. The color of the wine comes in fact from the maceration of the skins in the juice in fermentation. It is therefore the color of the skin of the grape that gives the color of the wine. \n\nThus, it is possible to make white wine with red grapes if we do not let the macerate the skins with the juice . This is for example the case of champagne, which is developed among other things from grape varieties such as pinot noir and pinot meunier, which are red grape varieties. On the other hand, it is not possible to make red wine with white grapes.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;The plasma membrane separating the the cell cytoplasm from the extracellular medium is composed of:;Lipids, which make up the lipid bilayer, are phospholipids that have a hydrophilic polar head and a hydrophobic nonpolar tail. Phospholipids are subject to 2 antagonistic forces: the head is attracted by water and the tail repels water. This conflict is solved by the formation of a lipid bilayer. The heads face the water on each of the 2 outer and inner surfaces of the membrane and the tails are protected from the water inside;2;2;One layer of lipids in which globular proteins and carbohydrates are inserted;A double layer of lipids in which globular proteins and carbohydrates are inserted.;;;
L ;The cell membrane consists of a double layer of lipids in which globular proteins and carbohydrates are inserted. What is the nature of these lipids?;Lipids, which make up the lipid bilayer, are phospholipids that have a hydrophilic polar head and a hydrophobic nonpolar tail. Phospholipids are subject to 2 antagonistic forces: the head is attracted by water and the tail repels water. This conflict is solved by the formation of a lipid bilayer. The heads face the water on each of the 2 outer and inner surfaces of the membrane and the tails are protected from the water inside;3;2;Triglycerides;Phospholipids;Steroids;;
L ;Do all the cell organelles have a membrane?;Some cell organelles d'ont have a membrane, while other organelles have one or two membranes. \n\nExamples: \n\nThe cytoskeleton and ribosomes d'ont have a membrane. \n\nThe endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, lysosomes and peroxisomes have a membrane. Mitochondria have two membranes.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;The cell plasma membrane contain hydrophilic proteins. These hydrophilic proteins are called:;Integral membrane proteins have hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions. They are firmly inserted into the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane by their hydrophobic region. Some can cross the entire thickness of the membrane: they are transmembrane proteins. Others only protrude from one side of the membrane. \n\nPeripheral membrane proteins are hydrophilic and do not penetrate the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane. They are located on both sides of the membrane and are attached to intrinsic molecules of the membrane.;2;2;Integral membrane proteins;Peripheral membrane proteins;;;
L;The cell plasma membrane contain proteins having hydrophilic regions and hydrophobic regions. These proteins are called:;Integral membrane proteins have hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions. They are firmly inserted into the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane by their hydrophobic region. Some can cross the entire thickness of the membrane: they are transmembrane proteins. Others only protrude from one side of the membrane. \n\nPeripheral membrane proteins are hydrophilic and do not penetrate the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane. They are located on both sides of the membrane and are attached to intrinsic molecules of the membrane.;2;1;Integral membrane proteins;Peripheral membrane proteins;;;
L;Glucose is used as a nutrient to provide the energy the cell needs to live. How can glucose penetrate the cell?;Glucose is a molecule too big to be able to diffuse directly through the lipid bilayer of the cell. To penetrate the cell, glucose uses a specific transporter (glucose transporter called GLUT which is a membrane protein) that allows to cross its plasma membrane. This GLUT transporter is a passive transporters that does not consume energy and can only be used when the glucose concentration outside the cell is greater than the concentration of glucose inside it;2;2;Glucose penetrates the cell directly through its plasma membrane by a simple passive diffusion mechanism.;Glucose penetrates the cell through a specific membrane protein that allows it to cross its plasma membrane.;;;
L;ATP is a molecule qualified as a source of energy for the cell. Indeed, the decomposition reaction of ATP into ADP molecule and phosphate ion releases energy that can be used by the cell. What is the name of this reaction?;The ATP molecule has energy-rich phosphate bonds. The decomposition reaction of ATP into ADP and phosphate ion allows, through the action of water, to cut a phosphate bond and release energy. This reaction in which a covalent bond is broken by the action of a water molecule is called ATP hydrolysis.;2;1;ATP Hydrolysis;ATP Oxidation;;;
L;To which family of organic molecules do monosaccharides belong?;Monosaccharides, also called oses, are simple carbohydrates composed of a single molecule (monomer). Examples of monosaccharides are glucose, fructose and galactose. During digestion, all carbohydrates having more than one molecule (disaccharides and polysaccharides) are converted in the mouth and lumen of the small intestine into glucose, fructose and galactose which can cross the walls of the intestine and enter the bloodstream. Glucose, fructose and galactose then reach the liver through the portal vein where fructose and galactose are converted to glucose. Glucose is the only carbohydrate that can be directly assimilated by cells to produce energy in the form of ATP.;4;1;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;To which family of organic molecules do disaccharides belong?;Disaccharides, also called osids, are simple carbohydrates composed of two monosaccharides molecules (monosaccharides) linked by a covalent bond. \n\nExamples of disaccharides: \n- Maltose, which is contained in the germinated barley, is composed of two glucose molecules \n- Lactose, which is found in milk, is composed of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of galactose \n\n- Sucrose, which is found in sugar cane and sugar beet, is composed of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of fructose \n\nDuring digestion, all carbohydrates composed of more than one molecule (disaccharides and polysaccharides) are converted into the mouth and in the lumen of the small intestine in monosaccharides (glucose, fructose and galactose) that can cross the walls of the intestine and enter the blood. Glucose, fructose and galactose then reach the liver through the portal vein where fructose and galactose are converted to glucose. Glucose is the only carbohydrate that can be directly assimilated by cells to produce energy in the form of ATP.;4;1;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;To which family of organic molecules do polysaccharides belong?;Polysaccharides are complex carbohydrates formed by the association of several monosaccharides molecules, usually glucose molecules (monosaccharide polymers). The three most well-known polysaccharides are starch, glycogen and cellulose. These are all glucose polymers. Starch and glycogen are reserve polysaccharides while cellulose is a polysaccharide of structure. Starch is the reserve sugar of plants. That is to say, it is especially in this form that plants store their excess glucose. Starch is particularly abundant in cereals (rice, wheat, maize, etc.) and tubers (potatoes). \n\nGlycogen is the animal reserve sugar found in muscle (meat) and animal liver. This is a convenient way for the body to store surplus glucose. Following a meal high in sugars, the blood may become dangerously too concentrated in glucose.  Blood sugar levels increase. The cells (liver and muscles especially) then transform these surplus glucose into glycogen molecules, which helps to lower blood sugar levels. The body is able to store up to 600 g of glycogen. Conversely, if the blood glucose level becomes too low (after fasting for a few hours or intense physical activity), the glycogen accumulated in the liver can be converted again into glucose that passes into the bloodstream. \n\nIn the plants, cellulose molecules join together to form fibers. These fibers form the hard parts of plant tissues.;4;1;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;To which family of organic molecules do triglycerides belong?;Triglycerides are animal fats and vegetable oils belonging to the lipid family. They consist of three fatty acids linked to a glycerol molecule. Triglycerides are the most abundant lipids. They are stored in the fat cells (adipocytes) and form a very important energy reserve which comes in addition to the glucose reserves, in the form of glycogen, which are found in the liver and the muscles.\n\nTriglycerides may contain saturated fatty acids, which are found in large amounts in animal fats, or unsaturated fatty acids that are found in large quantities in vegetable oils. From a dietary point of view, it is better to consume unsaturated fats rather than saturated fats.;4;2;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;To which family of organic molecules do steroids belong?;Steroids are a group of lipids characterized by a ring consisting of three cycles of hexagonal carbons and a five-membered ring. Cholesterol is an example of a steroid that plays a very important role. Like phospholipids, cholesterol is included in the composition of animal cell membranes because it also has a polar part directed inwards or outwards of the cell and an apolar part directed towards the inside of the membrane.  It has a role of stabilizing membranes. \n\nCholesterol is the precursor in the synthesis of steroid hormones, all of which are made from cholesterol: \n - Testosterone: a steroid made by the testes \n - Estradiol and Progesterone: Steroids Made by the Ovaries \n - Cortisol and Aldosterone: Steroids Made by the Adrenal Gland;4;2;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;What is the property of the phospholipids that make up the plasma membrane of cells?;Phospholipids, which make up the lipid bilayer of the cells plasma membrane, are called amphipathic, which means that they have both hydrophilic and hydrophobic properties. Phospholipids are subjected to two antagonistic forces: the head is attracted by water and the tail repels water. This conflict is solved by the formation of a lipid bilayer. The heads face the water on each of the 2 outer and inner surfaces of the membrane and the tails are protected from the water inside.;3;3;Hydrophilic molecules;Hydrophobic molecules;Amphipathic molecules;;
L;What molecule is made of cotton?;Cotton is a plant fiber that surrounds the seeds of "true" cotton plant (Gossypium sp.), a shrub of the Malvaceae family. This fiber, almost made of pure cellulose, is usually made into yarn that is woven into fabric. \n\nThe longest fibers are used to make cotton wool, yarns and textiles. Short ones are made into paper or regenerated into viscose. The crushed seeds give a food oil and an assimilable oil cake by ruminants. The cotton cultivation is, alas, very polluting (fertilizer, pesticides), exhausting for the soil, and requires an intensive irrigation (having caused the dryness of the Aral Sea).;3;3;Collagen molecule;Starch molecule;Cellulose molecule;;
L;To which family of organic molecules do the enzymes belong?;An enzyme is a protein with catalytic properties. Virtually all biomolecules capable of catalyzing chemical reactions in cells are enzymes. Some catalytic biomolecules, however, consist of RNA and are not enzymes: they are ribozymes. \n\nThe ribozymes discovery in the 1980s, independently by Tom Cech and Sidney Altman, was a big surprise because until then , proteins were the only biological macromolecules known to catalyze chemical reactions.;4;3;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;nucleic acids;
L;All biomolecules able to catalyze chemical reactions in cells are enzymes?;An enzyme is a protein with catalytic properties. Virtually all biomolecules capable of catalyzing chemical reactions in cells are enzymes. Some catalytic biomolecules, however, consist of RNA and are not enzymes: they are ribozymes. \n\nThe discovery of ribozymes in the 1980s, independently by Tom Cech and Sidney Altman, was a big surprise because until then , proteins were the only biological macromolecules known to catalyze chemical reactions.;2;2;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;An enzyme increases the speed of a chemical reaction because:;Enzymes are proteins, they act as catalysts in a chemical reaction that transforms a molecule called the substrate into a molecule called the product of the reaction. \n\nAn enzyme acts by lowering the activation energy of the chemical reaction that it catalyses. This has the effect of considerably increasing the speed of this reaction by several million times. \n\nThe enzymes thus allow the chemical transformations of the metabolism to occur at a speed sufficiently high to ensure vital cellular functions.;2;2;It increases the activation energy of the reaction;It decreases the activation energy of the reaction;;;
L;Some enzymes need an atom, ion or other molecule, called cofactors, to achieve their catalytic activity. What is the name of the enzymatic complex formed by the enzyme and its cofactors?;In biochemistry, a cofactor is a nonprotein chemical compound that is necessary for the biological activity of a protein, most often an enzyme. Cofactors are frequently involved in the catalytic reaction and can be considered as "assisting molecules" aiding biochemical transformations. \n\nSome enzymes require several cofactors, such as the pyruvate dehydrogenase multi-enzymatic complex that requires 6 cofactors. \n\nA cofactor may be a metal ion or an organic molecule, which in this case is called a coenzyme. Coenzymes are often vitamins like vitamin C which is the prolylhydrolase cofactor that allows the manufacture of collagen. \n\nAn inactive enzyme, without cofactor, is called apoenzyme, while the "complete" enzyme, with cofactor, is the holoenzyme.;3;1;holoenzyme;apoenzyme;coenzyme;;
L;Some enzymes need an atom, ion or other molecule, called cofactors, to achieve their catalytic activity. What is the name of the inactive enzyme without its cofactors?;In biochemistry, a cofactor is a nonprotein chemical compound that is necessary for the biological activity of a protein, most often an enzyme. Cofactors are frequently involved in the catalytic reaction and can be considered as "assisting molecules" aiding biochemical transformations. \n\nSome enzymes require several cofactors, such as the pyruvate dehydrogenase multi-enzymatic complex that requires 6 cofactors. \n\nA cofactor may be a metal ion or an organic molecule, which in this case is called a coenzyme. Coenzymes are often vitamins like vitamin C which is the prolylhydrolase cofactor that allows the manufacture of collagen. \n\nAn inactive enzyme, without cofactor, is called apoenzyme, while the "complete" enzyme, with cofactor, is the holoenzyme.;3;2;holoenzyme;apoenzyme;coenzyme;;
L;What is the name of an organic molecule that is necessary for the catalytic activity of an enzyme?;In biochemistry, a cofactor is a nonprotein chemical compound that is necessary for the biological activity of a protein, most often an enzyme. Cofactors are frequently involved in the catalytic reaction and can be considered as "assisting molecules" aiding biochemical transformations. \n\nSome enzymes require several cofactors, such as the pyruvate dehydrogenase multi-enzymatic complex that requires 6 cofactors. \n\nA cofactor may be a metal ion or an organic molecule, which in this case is called a coenzyme. Coenzymes are often vitamins like vitamin C which is the prolylhydrolase cofactor that allows the manufacture of collagen. \n\nAn inactive enzyme, without cofactor, is called apoenzyme, while the "complete" enzyme, with cofactor, is the holoenzyme.;3;3;holoenzyme;apoenzyme;coenzyme;;
L;In biochemistry, what is the name of the reagent (input product) of a chemical reaction?;The substrate is a molecule that enters a biochemical reaction to be transformed by the catalytic action of an enzyme. \n\nSuch an enzymatic reaction takes place in two stages:\n  1- The substrate binds to the enzyme to form the enzyme-substrate complex\n  2- Catalysis: succession of intermediate reactions allowing the transformation of the substrate into a product.;4;2;A ligant;A substrate;An enzyme;A histone;
L;The substrate is the molecule whose enzyme catalyzes the transformation. With rare exceptions, an enzyme can only act on a single substrate.;The substrate is the molecule whose enzyme catalyzes the transformation. With rare exceptions, an enzyme can only act on a single substrate. Thus, the name of the enzyme can indicate the name of the substrate on which it acts: the lactase catalyzes the lactose hydrolysis, milk sugar. Maltase catalyzes the maltose hydrolysis. Saccharase catalyzes the sucrose hydrolysis. \n\nThere are some exceptions to this general rule. For example, peroxidases act on different substrates.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;The substrate is the molecule whose enzyme catalyzes the transformation. With rare exceptions, an enzyme catalyzes only one type of chemical reaction for a given substrate;The substrate is the molecule whose enzyme catalyzes the transformation. With rare exceptions, an enzyme catalyzes only one type of chemical reaction for a given substrate. Thus, a dehydrogenase catalyzes oxidation by removal of hydrogen, a carboxylase catalyzes a carboxylation reaction, that is to say, fixation of CO2 on the substrate. \n\nThere are some exceptions to this general rule. Some enzymes can catalyze two types of chemical reactions. Thus, Rubisco, located abundantly in the chlorophyllian cells, allows the fixation of CO2 in organic molecules and also the oxygenation of ribulose biphosphate.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;Starch and cellulose are two complex carbohydrates found in food. Which one is non-digestible?;Cellulose molecules are not digestible by the human body. These molecules form the cell walls of plant cells and are called dietary fibers because their assembly forms fibers. They are present in fruits, vegetables as well as in oilseeds (almonds, walnuts, hazelnuts, etc.). \n\nThese molecules are indigestible because their bonds can not be broken by the digestive juices. It is therefore impossible to absorb the glucoses constituting these cellulose molecules. \n\nThese dietary fibers are nevertheless essential for the proper functioning of the intestinal transit because they increase the food bolus volume and change the stool consistency (making them softer) thanks to their power of water retention. They carry with them out of the body part of the bile and waste it contains and excess fat. Fiber deficiency can lead to gastric and intestinal disorders: constipation or diarrhea.;2;2;Starch;Cellulose;;;
L;In the case of a lack of glucose, which organ is unable to use lipid reserves in adipose tissue to produce the energy it needs?;The brain is an essential organ of the human body. Nerve cells need specific molecules to produce the energy they need. It is essentially glucose. The brain is thus fed with glucose reserves in the form of hepatic glycogen. Nevertheless, these reserves are very limited, and in particular less important than lipid reserves of adipose tissue. But nerve cells can not achieve the degradation of fatty acids! An important problem here is that nerve cells have a high energy requirement, but most of the body's energy reserves are in a form (fatty acids) that these cells can not use. \n\nThe solution for the brain is initially provided by glucogenesis. Glucogenesis makes it possible to produce glucose mainly from the amino acids contained in the proteins of the muscles. Then, in a second step, in order to limit the destruction of the body's proteins, the brain will also use ketone bodies. They are compounds that can be synthesized by the liver from fatty acids, and that can be used by nerve cells as a source of energy.;4;4;The heart;Lungs;Liver;The brain;
L;Among the reserves that the human body has, which is the most important in terms of energy content?;The entire energy requirement is usually covered by the carbohydrates (glucose) provided food. On the other hand, in the event of fasting, the organism must take the energy necessary for its operation on its reserves. The latter amount to an average of 141 000 kcal in the form of triglycerides (85.3% of total calories), 24 000 kcal of protein (14.4% of total reserves) and 600 kcal of glycogen, ie 0 , 3% of the reserves. \n\nGlycogen reserves that provide glucose are the least important and are depleted after just one day of fasting. After depletion of glycogen stores, fat reserves (triglycerides) and protein reserves are used. The brain can only use the protein reserves because the amino acids, extracted from the proteins, can be transformed into glucose by the liver (gluconeogenesis) while the other organs (heart, muscles, kidneys ...) use primarily the fat reserves because, unlike the brain, they can use fatty acids, resulting from the triglycerides degradation, to produce energy.;3;2;Glucose (glucogen) reserves in the liver and muscles;Fat reserves (triglycerides) in adipose tissue;Protein reserves in the muscles;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is a peptide bond?;A peptide bond is a covalent bond that links two amino acids in a protein. It links the carbon of the acid function to the nitrogen of the amine function. \n\nDuring the formation of this bond (synthesis reaction), a molecule of water is released. \n\nFor the cutting of this bond (hydrolysis reaction which occurs for example during the proteins digestion), a molecule of water is required to reconstitute the two amino acids.;2;1;A bond linking two amino acids in a protein;A bond linking two nucleotides in the DNA molecule;;;
L;In organic chemistry, what is a hydrolysis reaction?;A hydrolysis reaction is a covalent bond cleavage reaction of a molecule into two smaller molecules. This reaction requires a molecule of water which makes it possible to cut the covalent bond by providing a hydrogen on one of the molecules obtained after the cleavage of the bond and an OH group on the other molecule. \n\nOne example is the ATP molecule hydrolysis into an ADP molecule and a phosphate ion. This reaction releases energy because the cut covalent bond is a high energy reaction.;2;2;A synthesis reaction of a molecule by binding two smaller molecules that releases a molecule of water.;A cleavage reaction of a molecule into two smaller molecules that requires a molecule of water.;;;
L;Some proteins are the main building material of the body. What type are these proteins?;Fibrous proteins form long, very stable fibers. They are the main building material of the body. They are also called structural proteins. \n\nExamples: keratin (hair nails) and collagen (skin, bone).;2;2;Globular proteins;Fibrous proteins;;;
L;Some proteins play essential roles in the body (enzymes, hormones ...) What type are these proteins?;Globular proteins have a 3D structure that can be assimilated to a sphere. They play essential roles in the body. They are also called functional proteins. \n\nSome of these globular proteins are enzymes. Others are not enzymes like hormones, antibodies or hemoglobin which is the oxygen carrier in the blood.;2;1;Globular proteins;Fibrous proteins;;;
L;Is there a potential difference between the inner and outer faces of the plasma membrane of an animal cell at rest?;In the rest state, the inner face of the cells plasma membrane is negatively charged and the external face is positively charged. This rest potential or membrane potential is a potential difference between both sides of the plasma membrane of a resting cell. \n\nThe difference in membrane permeability between the K + and Na + ions causes that there are more K+ ions rejected out of the cell than there are Na+ ions entering it. This results in a loss of charge + of the internal side of the membrane in favor of the external side of the membrane, which establishes the resting potential of the membrane. \n\nThe resting potential is maintained by an active transport mechanism, the ion pump ATPase NaK which rejects 3 Na+ outside the cell and makes 2K+ enter the cell. This pump helps maintain the gradients of Na + and K + and thus maintain their diffusion. This ion pump therefore allows to maintain the resting potential.;3;2;No, both sides of the membrane are at the same potential;Yes, the inner side of the membrane is negatively charged with respect to its outer surface;Yes, the inner side of the membrane is positively charged with respect to its external surface;;
L;In an animal cell, what is the name of the small organelle that is the starting point for the microtubules formation that form the cell cytoskeleton?;The centrosome is a protein complex located near the animal cells nucleus and formed by 2 centrioles arranged at right angles to each other. It is the organizing center of microtubules because it is the starting point for the microtubules formation;3;2;Nucleolus;centrosome;centromere;;
L;What is the ribosomes function in a cell?;A ribosome is a small particle present in large numbers in the cytoplasm of all cells. It is formed by 2 subunits (a small and a large one) assembled when active but dissociated when inactive. It consists of proteins and ribosomal RNA. Ribosomes are the seat of protein synthesis from amino acids. They allow the translation of messenger RNA (mRNA) into protein.;3;1;Protein synthesis;Degradation of harmful or unnecessary particles;Cellular respiration;;
L;In a cell, ribosomes are the seat of protein synthesis from amino acids. Where are they located inside the cell?;In the eukaryotic cell, some ribosomes float freely in the cytosol (free ribosomes), others are attached to membranes (bound ribosomes) forming the rough part (outer surface) of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. \n\nRibosomes can make the shuttle between these two sites, that is to say, either being free, or being bound to the rough endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Free and bound ribosomes are exactly the same particles, it is their location that differentiates them.;3;3;Ribosomes float freely in the cytosol of the cell;Ribosomes are attached to rough endoplasmic reticulum membranes;Some ribosomes are free in the cytosol and others are attached to the rough endoplasmic reticulum membranes;;
L;In a cell, what are the organelles responsible for the degradation of free radicals, which are very toxic compounds and accelerate aging.;Peroxisomes are organelles of eukaryotic cells containing oxidases. They have an oxidative function and can be considered as protective organelles because they intervene in the detoxification of cells. \n\nDetoxification by oxidation of ethanol, attack of free radicals which are very unstable molecules (like ions) produced by the cell but that it must absolutely transform to avoid deterioration. It is these free radicals that accelerate aging. Thus, the peroxisome has an oxidase which makes it possible to convert the O 2 - anions to H2O2 (hydrogen peroxide) and then to H2O.;3;3;Ribosomes;Lysosomes;Peroxisomes;;
L;Where did the atoms nuclei that compose matter form?;A few seconds after the Big Bang, the universe expansion has brought down the temperature, and when it reaches one billion degrees Kelvin we enter the primordial nucleosynthesis phase: The photons lost energy and the protons and neutrons can now bind, without the risk of being separated by photons. They then form the first light nuclei and the Universe is then made up of hydrogen nuclei (protons only), deuterium and helium. But as the temperature is still going down very quickly, the formation of atomic nuclei will stop there. \n\nIt is during the formation of the stars that heavier nuclei were formed. The carbon nuclei come primarily from the helium nuclei fusion, the oxygen nuclei come from carbon and helium nuclei fusion, and so on. The temperature stability in the heart of the stars and the millions of years of life of the stars thus provide the favorable conditions for the heavy atoms synthesis.;2;2;All atomic nuclei formed a few seconds after the Big Bang;The light nuclei (deuterium and helium nuclei) formed a few seconds after the Big Bang while the heavier nuclei formed in the stars;;;
L;Which organelle present in a eukaryotic cell has similarities with a bacterium?;The mitochondrion has similarities with a bacterium: Same size (1?m), it contains circular DNA not enclosed in a nucleus, it contains ribosomes that can synthesize proteins and it has the ability to reproduce by cutting in two. \n\nBecause of these similarities, most scientists assume that the mitochondrion is nothing more than a primitive bacterium capable of breathing, which would have been absorbed by an eukaryotic cell and then lost its autonomy to live in symbiosis inside the cell.;4;2;The ribosome;The mitochondrion;The lysosome;The peroxisome;
L;Do the plants breathe?;Plant cells like animal cells breathe. This is called cellular respiration: cells absorb oxygen and use it as a "fuel" to "burn" sugars and recover energy for their daily lives. The cells then reject the "debris" of this combustion, that is to say carbon dioxide and water. \n\nThe respiration and the photosynthesis are two phenomena that take place simultaneously, and involving the same gases , but in opposite "directions": \n Respiration is oxygen uptake (O2) by the plant and carbon dioxide (CO2) discharge.\n Photosynthesis results in carbon dioxide uptake by the plant and a release of oxygen in the atmosphere (as well as the synthesis of sugar). \n\nIt is usual to say that plants breathe (and therefore absorb oxygen) during the night and ensure photosynthesis (and therefore release oxygen) during the day. In reality, breathing takes place day and night (photosynthesis only takes place in the presence of light), but during the day, the gas exchange due to photosynthesis masks those due to respiration, which are significantly less important in terms of volume.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Do all cells in our body have a nucleus?;All cells in our body have a nucleus except the red blood cells that don't have. \n\nAs they don't have a nucleus, red blood cells cannot synthesize any protein and have a limited lifespan (120 days). \n\nSome cells have several nuclei, such as skeletal muscle cells and osteoclasts (cells resorbent bone).;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;Are there cells in our body containing multiple nuclei?;All cells in our body have a nucleus except the red blood cells. \n\nWithout nucleus, red blood cells can not synthesize any protein and have a limited lifespan (120 days). \n\nSome cells have several nuclei, such as skeletal muscle cells and osteoclasts (cells resorbent bone) which are formed by the fusion of several uninucleate cells (one nucleus);2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Why do red blood cells have a limited life?;Red blood cells have no nucleus. They lost their nucleus during their maturation during their formation from erythroblasts (stem cells) that takes place in the bone marrow. \n\nSince they do not have a nucleus, they have a limited shelf life (123 days) because they do not contain DNA and therefore can not synthesize any protein, so they can no longer ensure the renewal of their constituents and cannot breed.;3;1;Because red blood cells do not have a nucleus;Because red blood cells are very small cells;Because red blood cells can be destroyed by white blood cells;;
L;Is there a maximum observation limit for telescopes?;The maximum observation limit of telescopes corresponds to the "fossil radiation" (in the range of microwaves) which sends us back to a vertiginous time in the past when no star or galaxy did not exist in the Universe. We then observe the very first light emitted by the young universe, barely 380 000 years after the Big Bang. It is an "electromagnetic horizon" beyond which we will never see anything that was discovered in 1965 by Robert Woodrow Wilson and Arno Allan Penzias. \n\nThe distance from this diffuse source is about 50 billion years light. This may seem surprising when you consider that the Universe is 13.8 billion years old, which would suggest that you cannot see further than 13.8 billion light years. But we must not forget that during the interval of time that the oldest light has reached us, the space has expanded, so that the "effective" path of the fossil light has been lengthened.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;There is a maximum observation limit for telescopes. What is this limit?;The maximum observation limit of telescopes corresponds to the "fossil radiation" (in the range of microwaves) which sends us back to a vertiginous time in the past when no star or galaxy did not exist in the Universe. We then observe the very first light emitted by the young universe, barely 380 000 years after the Big Bang. It is an "electromagnetic horizon" beyond which we will never see anything that was discovered in 1965 by Robert Woodrow Wilson and Arno Allan Penzias. \n\nThe distance from this diffuse source is about 50 billion years light. This may seem surprising when you consider that the Universe is 13.8 billion years old, which would suggest that you cannot see further than 13.8 billion light years. But we must not forget that during the interval of time that the oldest light has reached us, the space has expanded, so that the "effective" path of the fossil light has been lengthened.;4;4;10 million light years;50 million light years;10 billion light years;50 billion light years;
L;The nuclear envelope of the nucleus cell has pores allowing some compounds to get in or out of the nucleus. Which of these two compounds is exported by the nucleus?;Messenger RNA is a linear single-stranded copy of DNA composed of RNA, which includes the protein coding region, surrounded by noncoding regions. It is synthesized in the cell nucleus during a process called transcription. After several maturation steps, the mature messenger RNA is exported to the cytoplasm where it is translated into protein by a ribosome.;2;1;messenger RNA;histone proteins;;;
L;The nuclear envelope of the nucleus cell has pores allowing some compounds to get in or out of the nucleus. Which of these two compounds is imported from the cytoplasm to the nucleus?;The histone proteins are closely associated with the DNA contained in the nucleus for which they allow the compaction: the DNA is wrapped around the histones like wire around a coil. Histone proteins are made by free ribosomes in the cytoplasm and will enter the nucleus through the nuclear pores to associate with the DNA.;2;2;messenger RNA;histone proteins;;;
L;In what type of radioactivity are neutrino emitted?;There are two types of beta radioactivity: beta- radioactivity and beta+ radioactivity. \n\nIn the nucleus of a beta- radioactive atom, because of the weak interaction, a d-quark is transformed into an u-quark with the emission of a W- boson, which causes the transformation of a neutron into a proton. The W- boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into an electron bearing the negative charge of the boson and an antineutrino (neutrino antiparticle) of zero charge. In the end, beta- radioactivity causes the emission of an electron and an antineutrino. \n\nIn the nucleus of a radioactive beta+ atom, because of the weak interaction, a quark u is transformed into a quark d with the emission of a W+ boson, which causes the transformation of a proton into a neutron. The W+ boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into a positron (antielectron) carrying the charge of the positive of the boson and a neutrino of zero charge. In the end, beta+ radioactivity causes the emission of a positron and a neutrino.;4;3;Alpha radioactivity;Beta- radioactivity;Beta+ radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;
L;In what type of radioactivity are antineutrino emitted?;There are two types of beta radioactivity: beta- radioactivity and beta+ radioactivity. \n\nIn the nucleus of a beta- radioactive atom, because of the weak interaction, a d-quark is transformed into an u-quark with the emission of a W- boson, which causes the transformation of a neutron into a proton. The W- boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into an electron bearing the negative charge of the boson and an antineutrino (neutrino antiparticle) of zero charge. In the end, beta- radioactivity causes the emission of an electron and an antineutrino. \n\nIn the nucleus of a radioactive beta+ atom, because of the weak interaction, a quark u is transformed into a quark d with the emission of a W+ boson, which causes the transformation of a proton into a neutron. The W+ boson, being very unstable, immediately disintegrates into a positron (antielectron) carrying the charge of the positive of the boson and a neutrino of zero charge. In the end, beta+ radioactivity causes the emission of a positron and a neutrino.;4;4;Alpha radioactivity;Beta- radioactivity;Beta+ radioactivity;Gamma radioactivity;
L;More than one hundred thousand billion particles are passing through our body every second without us feeling it. What are these particles?;The nuclear reactions taking place in the sun generate a large number of neutrinos. These neutrinos, when we can detect them, show the activity of the sun and its fusion reactions. These neutrinos take 2 seconds to cross the sun and 8 minutes to arrive on earth. Their number is phenomenal. Thus more than one hundred thousand billion particles are passing through our body every second without us feeling it because these neutrinos, not being electrically charged, interact very little with matter.;4;3;tau;muon;neutrino;quark;
L;During cell division by mitosis, each chromosome is duplicated to form two identical replicas. What is each of these two replicas called?;During mitosis, the chromosome is copied to form two identical chromosomes. Each of these two chromosome replicas is called a chromatide. Chromatin is the filament formed by the chromosome DNA molecule associated with histone proteins. The chromatin forms a pearl necklace where the pearls are nucleosomes (histone proteins on which the DNA is wrapped) and the collar is DNA.;2;2;Chromatin;Chromatide;;;
L;Do plant cells have a nucleus?;Plants, like animals, are eukaryotes and their cells have a nucleus. The nucleus is a separate compartment from the rest of the cellular content containing the DNA. \n\nOrganisms whose cells do not have nuclei are prokaryotes. These are unicellular organisms like bacteria. Prokaryotes have their DNA in the cytoplasm of the cell.;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L;Which of these plant fibers does not come from the plant stem?;All plant fibers do not come from the plant stems, some fibers can come from the plant seed, this is the case of cotton, and others can come from the leaves or fruit envelopes, this is the case for example for raffia, sisal or abaca.;4;3;linen;jute;cotton;hemp;
L;Are plant fibers always extracted from the plant stems?;All plant fibers do not come from the plant stems, some fibers can come from the plant seed, this is the case of cotton, and others can come from the leaves or fruit envelopes, this is the case for example for raffia, sisal or abaca.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;DNA is located in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Where is the DNA of prokaryotes, unicellular organisms whose cells do not have nuclei?;Prokaryotic cells contain a single compartment, the cytoplasm, containing a single chromosome or DNA molecule that is most often circular and called the nucleoid. \n\nEukaryotes have a nucleus, a separate compartment from the rest of the cellular content, which contains the DNA.;2;2;Prokaryotes do not have DNA;DNA is in the cytoplasm of the prokaryote cells;;;
L;In the S phase of cell division there is duplication of chromosomes. What is the name of the union point of each pair of duplicate chromosomes?;During the S phase of cell division (mitosis), there is duplication of chromosomes. After duplicating a chromosome, the two duplicated chromosomes are genetically identical and remain connected at a point called the centromere.;4;3;nucleolus;centrosome;centromere;nucleoid;
L;In what phase of the cell division cycle does chromosome duplication occur?;Phase S is the DNA replication phase of cell division (mitosis). After phase S, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united with each other at the centromere.;4;2;G1 phase;S phase;G2 phase;M phase;
L;During an earthquake, what are the seismic waves that can be propagated in both solid rocks and liquid rocks?;When an earthquake occurs, two types of waves are generated: P waves (primary waves) are compression-expansion waves and S waves (secondary waves) are transverse shear waves. P waves can propagate indifferently in liquid or solid media, while S waves propagate only in solid media. \n\nThus S waves can only propagate if they have only solid to cross and they are thus stopped by the liquid of the external core and this creates a whole zone of shadow, opposite the epicenter, in which one will not detect wave S. The size of this shadow zone we provides information on both the density of the different layers and the extent of the liquid core that stops them. \n\nOn the other hand, P waves, which can propagate in liquids, will not be stopped by the outer core, but when they arrive in this area where the density changes abruptly, they will be deflected. In the same way as for S waves, some will be diverted to the surface without having to cross the nucleus, while others will enter the nucleus but undergo a refraction and this will also create a shadow zone for the P waves, but which will be located differently from that of the S waves. \n\nTherefore, whenever an earthquake occurs, one can learn a quantity of information about the internal structure of the earth by analyzing the P and S waves which are captured by different seismographs located on the surface of the planet. The S waves are slower than the P waves. The difference in arrival time between the P waves and the S waves, at a given seismological station, makes it possible to know how far from the recording place the earthquake took place.;4;3;R waves;S waves;P waves;T waves;
L;During an earthquake, what are the seismic waves that can only be propagated in solid rocks?;When an earthquake occurs, two types of waves are generated: P waves (primary waves) are compression-expansion waves and S waves (secondary waves) are transverse shear waves. P waves can propagate indifferently in liquid or solid media, while S waves propagate only in solid media. \n\nThus S waves can only propagate if they have only solid to cross and they are thus stopped by the liquid of the external core and this creates a whole zone of shadow, opposite the epicenter, in which one will not detect wave S. The size of this shadow zone we provides information on both the density of the different layers and the extent of the liquid core that stops them. \n\nOn the other hand, P waves, which can propagate in liquids, will not be stopped by the outer core, but when they arrive in this area where the density changes abruptly, they will be deflected. In the same way as for S waves, some will be diverted to the surface without having to cross the nucleus, while others will enter the nucleus but undergo a refraction and this will also create a shadow zone for the P waves, but which will be located differently from that of the S waves. \n\nTherefore, whenever an earthquake occurs, one can learn a quantity of information about the internal structure of the earth by analyzing the P and S waves which are captured by different seismographs located on the surface of the planet. The S waves are slower than the P waves. The difference in arrival time between the P waves and the S waves, at a given seismological station, makes it possible to know how far from the recording place the earthquake took place.;4;2;R waves;S waves;P waves;T waves;
L;During an earthquake, two types of seismic waves are generated: P waves and S waves. What is the particularity of P waves?;When an earthquake occurs, two types of waves are generated: P waves (primary waves) are compression-expansion waves and S waves (secondary waves) are transverse shear waves. P waves can propagate indifferently in liquid or solid media, while S waves propagate only in solid media. \n\nThus S waves can only propagate if they have only solid to cross and they are thus stopped by the liquid of the external core and this creates a whole zone of shadow, opposite the epicenter, in which one will not detect wave S. The size of this shadow zone we provides information on both the density of the different layers and the extent of the liquid core that stops them. \n\nOn the other hand, P waves, which can propagate in liquids, will not be stopped by the outer core, but when they arrive in this area where the density changes abruptly, they will be deflected. In the same way as for S waves, some will be diverted to the surface without having to cross the nucleus, while others will enter the nucleus but undergo a refraction and this will also create a shadow zone for the P waves, but which will be located differently from that of the S waves. \n\nTherefore, whenever an earthquake occurs, one can learn a quantity of information about the internal structure of the earth by analyzing the P and S waves which are captured by different seismographs located on the surface of the planet. The S waves are slower than the P waves. The difference in arrival time between the P waves and the S waves, at a given seismological station, makes it possible to know how far from the recording place the earthquake took place.;2;1;These are compression-expansion waves;These are transverse shear waves;;;
L;During an earthquake, two types of seismic waves are generated P waves and S waves. What is the particularity of S waves?;When an earthquake occurs, two types of waves are generated: P waves (primary waves) are compression-expansion waves and S waves (secondary waves) are transverse shear waves. P waves can propagate indifferently in liquid or solid media, while S waves propagate only in solid media. \n\nThus S waves can only propagate if they have only solid to cross and they are thus stopped by the liquid of the external core and this creates a whole zone of shadow, opposite the epicenter, in which one will not detect wave S. The size of this shadow zone we provides information on both the density of the different layers and the extent of the liquid core that stops them. \n\nOn the other hand, P waves, which can propagate in liquids, will not be stopped by the outer core, but when they arrive in this area where the density changes abruptly, they will be deflected. In the same way as for S waves, some will be diverted to the surface without having to cross the nucleus, while others will enter the nucleus but undergo a refraction and this will also create a shadow zone for the P waves, but which will be located differently from that of the S waves. \n\nTherefore, whenever an earthquake occurs, one can learn a quantity of information about the internal structure of the earth by analyzing the P and S waves which are captured by different seismographs located on the surface of the planet. The S waves are slower than the P waves. The difference in arrival time between the P waves and the S waves, at a given seismological station, makes it possible to know how far from the recording place the earthquake took place.;2;2;These are compression-expansion waves;These are transverse shear waves;;;
L;The cell division cycle includes 4 phases called G1, G2, M, S. In what order do these phases take place?;The four phases of the cell division cycle take place in the following order: G1, S, G2, M. \n\nG1 phase precedes the DNA replication phase, it is a phase of very high activity where the cell undergoes a very important growth. \n\nS phase is the DNA replication phase. At the end of this phase, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united to each other at a point called the centromere. \n\nG2 phase is a new phase of growth and synthesis (of proteins and enzymes) preparing the division. \n\nM phase is the last phase of the cell division cycle where the nucleus of the cell separates into two nuclei and then its cytoplasm splits to form two daughter cells;4;2;G1, G2, M, S;G1, S, G2, M;G1, G2, S, M;G1, M, G2, S;
L;What is the phase of the cell division cycle that precedes the DNA replication phase which is a very high activity phase where the cell undergoes very high growth?;The four phases of the cell division cycle take place in the following order: G1, S, G2, M. \n\nG1 phase precedes the DNA replication phase, it is a phase of very high activity where the cell undergoes a very important growth. \n\nS phase is the DNA replication phase. At the end of this phase, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united to each other at a point called the centromere. \n\nG2 phase is a new phase of growth and synthesis (of proteins and enzymes) preparing the division. \n\nM phase is the last phase of the cell division cycle where the nucleus of the cell separates into two nuclei and then its cytoplasm splits to form two daughter cells;4;1;G1;M;S;G2;
L;What is the phase of the cell division cycle in which DNA replication occurs?;The four phases of the cell division cycle take place in the following order: G1, S, G2, M. \n\nG1 phase precedes the DNA replication phase, it is a phase of very high activity where the cell undergoes a very important growth. \n\nS phase is the DNA replication phase. At the end of this phase, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united to each other at a point called the centromere. \n\nG2 phase is a new phase of growth and synthesis (of proteins and enzymes) preparing the division. \n\nM phase is the last phase of the cell division cycle where the nucleus of the cell separates into two nuclei and then its cytoplasm splits to form two daughter cells;4;3;G1;M;S;G2;
L;What is the phase of the cell division cycle which is a new growth phase of the cell preparing its division?;The four phases of the cell division cycle take place in the following order: G1, S, G2, M. \n\nG1 phase precedes the DNA replication phase, it is a phase of very high activity where the cell undergoes a very important growth. \n\nS phase is the DNA replication phase. At the end of this phase, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united to each other at a point called the centromere. \n\nG2 phase is a new phase of growth and synthesis (of proteins and enzymes) preparing the division. \n\nM phase is the last phase of the cell division cycle where the nucleus of the cell separates into two nuclei and then its cytoplasm splits to form two daughter cells;4;4;G1;M;S;G2;
L;What is the phase of the cell division cycle which is the last phase in which the cell divides into two daughter cells?;The four phases of the cell division cycle take place in the following order: G1, S, G2, M. \n\nG1 phase precedes the DNA replication phase, it is a phase of very high activity where the cell undergoes a very important growth. \n\nS phase is the DNA replication phase. At the end of this phase, each chromosome is duplicated into 2 genetically identical chromosomes remaining united to each other at a point called the centromere. \n\nG2 phase is a new phase of growth and synthesis (of proteins and enzymes) preparing the division. \n\nM phase is the last phase of the cell division cycle where the nucleus of the cell separates into two nuclei and then its cytoplasm splits to form two daughter cells;4;2;G1;M;S;G2;
L;In biology, what is the name of a cell whose chromosomes are present in homologous pairs?;A diploid cell is a cell whose chromosomes are present in homologous pairs. In humans, diploid cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes in total. Somatic cells (the vast majority of cells in the body) are diploid. \n\nA haploid cell is a cell that contains only one member of each pair of chromosomes, or 23 chromosomes in humans. Sexual cells or gametes are haploid.;2;2;Haploid cell;Diploid cell;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of a cell that contains a single member of each pair of chromosomes?;A diploid cell is a cell whose chromosomes are present in homologous pairs. In humans, diploid cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes in total. Somatic cells (the vast majority of cells in the body) are diploid. \n\nA haploid cell is a cell that contains only one member of each pair of chromosomes, or 23 chromosomes in humans. Sexual cells or gametes are haploid.;2;1;Haploid cell;Diploid cell;;;
L ;In biology, is a somatic cell a diploid cell or a haploid cell?;Somatic cells (all body cells except germinal cells and and sexual cells) are diploid cells. In humans, diploid cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes in total. \n\nThe sexual cells or gametes are haploid cells that contain only one member of each pair of chromosomes, or 23 chromosomes for human.;2;2;Haploid cell;Diploid cell;;;
L ;In biology, is a gamete (or sexual cell) a diploid cell or a haploid cell?;Somatic cells (all body cells except germinal cells and and sexual cells) are diploid cells. In humans, diploid cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes in total. \n\nThe sexual cells or gametes are haploid cells that contain only one member of each pair of chromosomes, or 23 chromosomes for human.;2;1;Haploid cell;Diploid cell;;;
L;In mathematics, what is the relationship between the derivative and the primitive of a function?;By definition, a primitive of a function f is a function F whose derivative F' is the function f. \n\nIf the function F is a primitive of f, the function F + C (C being a constant) is another primitive of f.;2;1;The derivative of the primitive of a function is equal to the function;The primitive of the derivative of a function is equal to the function;;;
L;In physics, Newton is a force unit. How is it defined?;The force F is connected to the mass m and to the acceleration by the Newton's law of motion: F = ma, so the force has for dimension a mass by an acceleration. \n\nThus the Newton is the force necessary to give one kilogram mass an acceleration of one meter per second, therefore: 1 N = 1 kg.m / s2;4;3;1 kg.s/m;1 kg.s/m2;1 kg.m/s2;1 kg.m/s;
L;In mathematics, the partial derivatives of multiple order of a function of several variables do not depend on the order in which they are computed.;Partial derivatives of multiple order of a function of several variables do not depend on the order in which they are calculated. \n\nFor a V function with two variables x and y: The partial derivative with respect to x of the partial derivative of V with respect to y is equal to partial derivative with respect to y of the partial derivative of V with respect to x.;2;1;It's true;It's wrong;;;
L;In physics, we can define a potential energy associated with a force provided that this force is:;It is possible to define a potential energy associated with a force, only if this force is conservative, that is, the work produced by the displacement of this force from point A to point B must be independent of the taken path . \n\nThus an object subjected to a conservative force has a potential energy. This energy is called potential because the force can accelerate it and make it acquire kinetic energy.;2;1;conservative;non-conservative;;;
L;In mechanics, the trajectory followed by a particle obeys the principle of least action which consists in minimizing an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function. What is the name of this function?;In mechanics, the trajectory of a particle obeys the principle of least action which consists of minimizing an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function. \n\nThis function is called the Lagrangian and is defined by the difference between the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the particle. \n\nThe conditions necessary to obtain this minimum are expressed by differential equations called Euler-Lagrange equations. These equations are simply another form of Newton's equation of motion.;4;3;Hamiltonian;Neperian;Lagrangian;Laplacian;
L;The conditions necessary to obtain the minimum corresponding to the principle of least action of mechanics are expressed by differential equations. What are these equations called?;In mechanics, the trajectory of a particle obeys the principle of least action which consists of minimizing an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function. \n\nThis function is called the Lagrangian and is defined by the difference between the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the particle. \n\nThe conditions necessary to obtain this minimum are expressed by differential equations called Euler-Lagrange equations. These equations are simply another form of Newton's equation of motion.;4;2;Hamilton-Jacobi equations;Euler-Lagrange equations;Bernoulli's equations;Gibbs-Liouville equations;
L;In humans, all cells except sexual cells contain 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Are the two homologous chromosomes of each pair genetically identical?;The homologous chromosomes are morphologically identical but genetically different. \n\nTwo homologous chromosomes are necessarily different for some number of alleles. \n\nEach pair of homologous chromosomes consists of a chromosome of paternal origin (brought by the male gamete or spermatozoon) and a chromosome of maternal origin (brought by the female gamete);2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;What is the cell division mechanism that makes it possible to obtain four genetically different daughter cells from a mother cell?;Sexual cells or gametes are formed a cell division type called meiosis. Meiosis is a particular type of cell division that generates haploid cells (cells having only one member of each pair of homologous chromosomes) from diploid cells (cells that have homologous chromosome pairs). \n\nThe meiosis dissociates the homologous chromosomes from each pair of the diploid mother cell, it performs two successive divisions and produces 4 haploid daughter cells (4 gametes). \n\n It is the fertilization, union of a spermatozoon (male gamete) and an oocyte (female gamete) which allows to reconstruct the pairs of homologous chromosomes, with one chromosome brought by the male gamete and the other brought by the female gamete. \n\nMitosis is the type of cell division that makes it possible to obtain 2 identical daughter cells from a mother cell. It is this type of cell division that allows living organisms to grow and regenerate.;2;2;Mitosis;Meiosis;;;
L;Are all genes in chromosome DNA used for protein encoding?;A gene encoding a protein is a DNA sequence that carries the instructions for the synthesis of a mRNA (messenger RNA) that in turn allows the synthesis of a specific protein. \n\nThere are also genes that do not encode any specific protein but allow the synthesis of tRNA (transfer RNA) and rRNA (ribosomal RNA) which will serve as tools for the synthesis of proteins.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of the synthesis of an RNA molecule using the DNA molecule as a template?;Transcription is the synthesis of an RNA using DNA as a template. It makes it possible to produce the different types of RNA (mRNA, tRNA, rRNA). \n\nTranslation is the synthesis of a protein from the nucleotide sequence of the mRNA.;2;1;Transcription;Translation;;;
L;In biology, what is the name of the synthesis of a specific protein from the nucleotide sequence of the mRNA (messenger RNA) molecule?;Transcription is the synthesis of an RNA using DNA as a template. It makes it possible to produce the different types of RNA (mRNA, tRNA, rRNA). \n\nTranslation is the synthesis of a protein from the nucleotide sequence of the mRNA.;2;2;Transcription;Translation;;;
L;In a cell, DNA exists as condensed chromatin (heterochromatin) and as decondensed chromatin (euchromatin). In what type of chromatin are the genes in the DNA active?;Chromatin is a highly colourable substance found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells and consists of a combination (by electrostatic bonds) of DNA and histone proteins. \n\nThere are two types of chromatin: euchromatin and Heterochromatin: Euclromatin is a clear, highly decondensed chromatin corresponding to active genes while heterochromatin is a more condensed chromatin formed of inactive genes. \n\nA regulation of gene activity can be performed by modification of the chromatin local degree of condensation, which enables the types of active genes to be modified over time.;2;2;heterochromatin;euchromatin;;;
L;In a cell, the DNA exists in the form of condensed chromatin and in the form of decondensed chromatin. What is the name of the condensed chromatin formed of inactive genes?;Chromatin is a highly colourable substance found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells and consists of a combination (by electrostatic bonds) of DNA and histone proteins. \n\nThere are two types of chromatin: euchromatin and Heterochromatin: Euclromatin is a clear, highly decondensed chromatin corresponding to active genes while heterochromatin is a more condensed chromatin formed of inactive genes. \n\nA regulation of gene activity can be performed by modification of the chromatin local degree of condensation, which enables the types of active genes to be modified over time.;2;1;heterochromatin;euchromatin;;;
L;In a cell, the DNA exists in the form of condensed chromatin and in the form of decondensed chromatin. What is the name of the decondensed chromatin formed of active genes?;Chromatin is a highly colourable substance found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells and consists of a combination (by electrostatic bonds) of DNA and histone proteins. \n\nThere are two types of chromatin: euchromatin and Heterochromatin: Euclromatin is a clear, highly decondensed chromatin corresponding to active genes while heterochromatin is a more condensed chromatin formed of inactive genes. \n\nA regulation of gene activity can be performed by modification of the chromatin local degree of condensation, which enables the types of active genes to be modified over time.;2;2;heterochromatin;euchromatin;;;
L;In the DNA molecule, each gene is composed of two types of segments called introns and exons. After the gene transcription into messenger RNA, what are the segments that are deleted from the RNA molecule and therefore not used in the translation process, that is, protein synthesis?;An intron is a gene segment that is transcribed (thus present in pre-messenger RNA) but not expressed (it is not conserved in mature mRNA). The introns are intercalated with exons. \n\nAn exon is a gene segment whose transcript is conserved in the mature mRNA and will be expressed.;2;2;Les exons;Les introns;;;
L;In cell biology, a codon is a sequence of several consecutive nucleotides in the messenger RNA molecule that determines a specific amino acid. What is this number of nucleotides?;A codon is a sequence of 3 consecutive nucleotides of a messenger RNA that determines a specific amino acid. Since there are 4 different nucleotides in the messenger RNA molecule (called A, G, C, and U), we will have 4x4x4 = 64 different codons. The genetic code matches each of these 64 codons with an amino acid. Since there are 64 different codons and 20 different amino acids, several identical codons will therefore be associated with the same amino acid;4;1;Three;Four;Five;Six;
L;In cell biology, the genetic code is the correspondence system between the nucleotides composing the messenger RNA molecule and the amino acids of the protein that it makes it possible to synthesize. Why is it called universal?;A codon is a sequence of 3 consecutive nucleotides of a messenger RNA determining a specific amino acid. The genetic code is the system of correspondence between codons and amino acids. This is the dictionary used by cells to translate the nucleotide language of RNA (consisting of 4 letters, arranged in 64 different triplets) into protein language (20 different amino acids). \n\nThe genetic code is a universal code because it's the same code that is used by all cells of all living things.;3;3;Same code used by all human cells;Same code used by all animal cells;Same code used by all cells of all living beings;;
L;In cell biology, each group of 3 consecutive nucleotides in the messenger RNA molecule determines a specific amino acid. What is the name of these groups of nucleotides?;A codon is a sequence of 3 consecutive nucleotides of a messenger RNA that determines a specific amino acid. Since there are 4 different nucleotides in the messenger RNA molecule (called A, G, C, and U), we will have 4x4x4 = 64 different codons. The genetic code matches each of these 64 codons with an amino acid. Since there are 64 different codons and 20 different amino acids, several identical codons will therefore be associated with the same amino acid;3;2;genoa;codons;alleles;;
L;In analytic mechanics, how is the space of states of a N particles system defined?;The configuration space of a N particles system is a 3N dimensional system to describe the positions of N particles (3 components x, y, z to define the position of each particle). \n\nTle space state of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe the positions and 3N variables to describe the velocities(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components vx, vy, vz for the velocity). \n\nThe phase space of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe positions and 3N variables to describe the particles momentum(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components px, py, pz for the momentum).;3;3;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for momentums;3N dimensional space to define the N particles positions;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for velocities;;
L;In analytical mechanics, how is the configuration space of a N particles system defined?;The configuration space of a N particles system is a 3N dimensional system to describe the positions of N particles (3 components x, y, z to define the position of each particle). \n\nTle space state of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe the positions and 3N variables to describe the velocities(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components vx, vy, vz for the velocity). \n\nThe phase space of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe positions and 3N variables to describe the particles momentum(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components px, py, pz for the momentum).;3;2;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for momentums;3N dimensional space to define the N particles positions;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for velocities;;
L;In analytic mechanics, how is the phase space of a N particles system defined?;The configuration space of a N particles system is a 3N dimensional system to describe the positions of N particles (3 components x, y, z to define the position of each particle). \n\nTle space state of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe the positions and 3N variables to describe the velocities(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components vx, vy, vz for the velocity). \n\nThe phase space of a N particles system is a 6N dimensional system: 3N variables to describe positions and 3N variables to describe the particles momentum(3 components x, y, z for the position and 3 components px, py, pz for the momentum).;3;1;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for momentums;3N dimensional space to define the N particles positions;6N dimensional space: 3N for positions and 3N for velocities;;
L;In a cell, where rRNAs (ribosomal RNA) are made?;The nucleolus is the synthesis site of rRNAs (ribosomal RNA) and their assembly with the ribosomal proteins imported from the cytoplasm. It is the manufacturing plant for ribosomal subunits that then are exported into the cytoplasm to form active ribosomes.;3;3;In the cytosol;In the nucleus;In the nucleolus;;
L;In a cell, there are 3 types of RNA molecules: messenger RNA, transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA. What type of RNA is a copy of a DNA portion corresponding to one or more genes?;Messenger RNA is a copy of a DNA portion corresponding to one or more genes. It is synthesized in the cell nucleus during a process called transcription. After several stages of maturation, the mature messenger RNA is exported into the cytoplasm where it is translated into protein by a ribosome.;3;1;Messenger RNA;Transfer RNA;Ribosomal RNA;;
L;In a cell, there are 3 types of RNA molecules: messenger RNA, transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA. What type of RNA is an adapter between messenger RNA and a specific amino acid?;The transfer RNA is an adapter between a messenger RNA codon and a specific amino acid. It thus has two sites: A site allowing the attachment of a specific amino acid and an anticodon site complementary to a messenger RNA codon.;2;1;Transfer RNA;Ribosomal RNA;;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the ribosomes chain linked by the same molecule of messenger RNA and which simultaneously translate this RNA into protein.;Polysomes are chains of ribosomes linked by the same molecule of messenger RNA. They simultaneously translate this messenger RNA into protein. \n\nThis process makes it possible to synthesize very quickly many copies of the same protein.;3;2;Lysosome;Polysome;Peroxisome;;
L;In mechanics, when a collision occurs between two objects, there is conservation of the momentums of the objects before and after the collision. Is there also conservation of kinetic energies?;The kinetic energy is only conserved if the collision between the two objects is an elastic collision, ie if the masses of the objects are preserved after the collision and there is no deformation or heating of the objects during the collision.;3;3;Yes;No;Yes or no depending on the type of collision;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the process of expelling out of the cell the contents of an intracellular vesicle?;Exocytosis is a process of expulsion from the cell of the contents of an intracellular vesicle. It allows the secretion of hormones (eg pancreatic insulin), neurotransmitters (eg acetylcholine) and digestive enzymes. Endocytosis is a vesicular transport that allows material to be incorporated into the cell. It is an inverted process compared to exocytosis because the cell incorporates material by invagination of the plasma membrane and formation of vesicles.;2;2;endocytosis;exocytosis;;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the process for incorporating material into the cell?;Exocytosis is a process of expulsion from the cell of the contents of an intracellular vesicle. It allows the secretion of hormones (eg pancreatic insulin), neurotransmitters (eg acetylcholine) and digestive enzymes. Endocytosis is a vesicular transport that allows material to be incorporated into the cell. It is an inverted process compared to exocytosis because the cell incorporates material by invagination of the plasma membrane and formation of vesicles.;2;1;endocytosis;exocytosis;;;
L;In cell biology, a chromosome consists of a DNA molecule associated with proteins. What is the name of these proteins?;A chromosome consists of a DNA molecule that, in combination with histone proteins, forms a chromatin filament. \n\nHistone proteins are closely associated with the DNA they allow for compaction: DNA is wound around the histones like wire around a coil.;4;4;myosin;collagen;keratin;histone;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the whole set of chromosomes of a cell or an individual?;The karyotype is the set of chromosomes of a cell or an individual as can be seen during mitotic metaphase (because it is the stage where they are at most of their condensation, therefore the most visible). \n\nThe karyotype of a human somatic cell has 46 chromosomes or 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. \n\nEach pair of homologous chromosomes consists of a chromosome of paternal origin (provided by the male gamete or spermatozoid) and a chromosome of maternal origin (brought by the female gamete). \n\nOf the 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes, there is a pair of sex chromosomes or gonosomes (XY in humans, XX in women) that determine our genetic sex.;3;3;The phenotype;The genotype;The karyotype;;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the whole set of genes of an individual?;The genotype is the set of genes of an individual. Only some of these genes will express themselves by observable characters, such as eye color, hair color, size ... \n\nThe phenotype is the set of observable characteristics of an individual. It corresponds to the observable expression of the genotype.;3;2;The phenotype;The genotype;The karyotype;;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the chromosomal anomaly that is characterized by the complete or partial absence of one of the two X chromosomes in women?;Turner's syndrome is due to the complete or partial absence of one of the two X chromosomes in women. It most often results in a small size and malfunction of the ovaries. \n\nKlinefelter syndrome is characterized by an extra X chromosome in humans. It is manifested by an abnormal development of the breasts, a small testis and an absence of spermatozoa in the sperm, often with mental retardation.;3;2;Down syndrome;Turner's syndrome;Klinefelter syndrome;;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the chromosomal anomaly that is characterized by an extra X chromosome in men?;Turner's syndrome is due to the complete or partial absence of one of the two X chromosomes in women. It most often results in a small size and malfunction of the ovaries. \n\nKlinefelter syndrome is characterized by an extra X chromosome in humans. It is manifested by an abnormal development of the breasts, a small testis and an absence of spermatozoa in the sperm, often with mental retardation.;3;3;Down syndrome;Turner's syndrome;Klinefelter syndrome;;
L;In cell biology, what are the names of the chromosomes that are not sex chromosomes?;Autosomes are chromosomes other than sex chromosomes (X chromosomes and Y chromosomes, called gonosomes). There are 44 autosomes in humans, 22 pairs of autosomes. The twenty-third pair is the pair of sex chromosomes (XY in men and XX in women).;4;1;autosomes;lysosomes;polysomes;gonosomes;
L;In genetics, what is the name of the allele of a gene that is most common in the population?;An allele (abbreviation for allelomorph) is a variable version of the same gene, that is to say a varied form that can be distinguished by variations in its nucleotide sequence. \n\nThe name of the allele of a gene that is most common in the population is called a wild allele.;3;3;common allele;ordinary allele;wild allele;;
L;In Lagrangian mechanics, what quantity is conserved over time when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of the system is invariant by translation of coordinates?;Lagrangian mechanics is based on the principle of least action. The trajectory of a particle follows a trajectory that minimizes an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function called Lagrangian. \n\nIn Lagrangian mechanics, when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of a system is invariant by translation of coordinates, there is conservation of momentum over time. \n\nIn Lagrangian mechanics, when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of a system is invariant by rotation, there is a conservation of kinetic momentum over time.;3;1;momentum;kinetic moment;energy;;
L;In Lagrangian mechanics, what quantity is conserved over time when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of the system is rotational invariant?;Lagrangian mechanics is based on the principle of least action. The trajectory of a particle follows a trajectory that minimizes an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function called Lagrangian. \n\nIn Lagrangian mechanics, when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of a system is invariant by translation of coordinates, there is conservation of momentum over time. \n\nIn Lagrangian mechanics, when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of a system is invariant by rotation, there is a conservation of kinetic momentum over time.;3;2;momentum;kinetic moment;energy;;
L;In Lagrangian mechanics, what quantity is conserved over time when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of the system is invariant by translation in time?;Lagrangian mechanics is based on the principle of least action. The trajectory of a particle follows a trajectory that minimizes an action defined by the integral along its trajectory of a function called Lagrangian. \n\nIn Lagrangian mechanics, when the Lagrangian describing the dynamics of a system is invariant by translation in time, there is conservation of energy over time.;3;3;momentum;kinetic moment;energy;;
L;In Hamiltonian mechanics, what quantity represents the Hamiltonian of a system?;The Hamiltonian is a quantity that represents the system energy. This quantity is important because in addition to representing the energy of the system, it is the central element of an entirely new formulation of mechanics called the Hamiltonian formulation. \n\nAs Newton's equation of motion, the Hamilton's equations are differential equations that describe in another form the dynamics of the system;3;3;Kinetic energy;Potential energy;Total energy;;
L;Why does color blindness affect men more than women?;A male cell contains an X chromosome and a Y chromosome while a female cell contains two X chromosomes. \n\nColor blindness is due to the recessive allele of a gene carried only by the X chromosome. \n\nWhen a male subject receives this recessive allele, the expression of this gene is never masked by another allele since it does not have a corresponding allele on the Y chromosome. The recessive allele corresponding to daltonism is therefore always expressed, even if he is alone. \n\nBy contrast, women must receive 2 X-linked recessive alleles for the disease to express themselves. That's why very few women have X-linked diseases.;2;1;Because it is linked to a gene carried by the X chromosome;Because it is linked to a gene carried by the Y chromosome;;;
L;In genetics, X chromosome-related characters:;A male cell contains an X chromosome and a Y chromosome, whereas a female cell contains two X chromosomes. \n\nX chromosome-related characters are transmitted from the mother to her sons because the X chromosome of a boy comes from his mother. Since boys do not receive an X chromosome from their father (they receive the Y chromosome), X chromosome-related characters are never transmitted from father to son.;2;1;are always transmitted from the mother to her sons;are transmitted from the father to his sons;;;
L;From a genetic point of view, the union of a white-skinned person with a black-skinned person gives a Métis child. Can the union of two Métis people give a child with white skin or black skin?;The color of the human skin depends on 3 different genes each having 2 alleles: A, a, B, b, C, c. \n\nThe A, B and C alleles give dark skin pigments and their effects are cumulative whereas alleles a, b and c give clear skin. \n\nA genotype A/A, B/B, C/C subject has the darkest possible skin and a genotype a/a, b/b, c /c subject has the clearest skin possible. Their descendants (F1 or first generation) will have a genotype A/a, B/b, C/c (they are heterozygotes) and an intermediate pigmentation. \n\nThe union of such heterozygotes will give in second generation ( F2) children that can have all types of pigmentation. The typical distribution curve of phenotypes in polygenic inheritance is a parable.;4;4;No, the child is necessarily Métis;Yes, there is a probability of having a child with white skin but not black skin;Yes, there is a probability of having a child with black skin but not white skin;Yes, there is a probability of having a child with white or black skin;
L;In physics, a solid body is in equilibrium (without motion or in uniform motion) if the resultant of the forces exerted on it is null.;For a solid body to be in equilibrium (without motion or with uniform motion), two conditions are required: \n\n The resultant (sum) of the forces applied to the object must be zero. \n The moment resulting from the applied forces, calculated with respect to any point, must also be zero.;2;2;it's true;It's wrong;;;
L;On which principle of physics is the operation of a gyroscope based?;A gyroscope is a device that exploits the principle of conservation of kinetic moment in physics. This basic law of mechanics means that, in the absence of torque applied to a solid in rotation, it retains its invariable axis of rotation. \n\nA gyroscope consists of a central disc-shaped disk in rotation on the vertical axis, connected to three outer circles in free rotation. The central disk keeps its fixed orientation (vertical) regardless of the movements of the outer circles. If one tries to incline it, a resistance force appears which tends to bring it back to its original position.;4;4;least action principle;energy conservation;momentum conservation;kinetic moment conservation;
L;For a bone marrow transplant to succeed, it is enough for the donor and the recipient to have the same blood group.;The compatibility required for a bone marrow transplant involves a complex system, different from the blood groups (HLA system). \n\nThis system refers to specialized proteins (antigens) present on the surface of all cells (whose white blood cells) and the genes that code for them. Each individual inherited from his parents a combination of HLA antigens. HLA typing identifies the individual's major HLA genes and the corresponding antigens that are present on the cell surface. \n\nThe donor and recipient HLA genes need to be identical or at least as close as possible for the the success of the transplant. Indeed, blood stem cell donors and recipients must match closely so that the white blood cells in the donor's bone marrow do not attack the recipient's cells.;2;2;it's true;It's wrong;;;
L;In astronomy, who discovered the mathematical relationships that govern the movements of planets around the sun?;Kepler discovered the mathematical relations (Kepler's Laws) that govern the motion of planets in their orbits. These relationships were based on observations and measurements of the position of the planets made by Tycho Brahe, measures that were very precise at the time. These relations were then exploited by Isaac Newton to elaborate the theory of universal gravitation. \n\nThe three laws of Kepler are as follows: \n\n Each planet has an ellipse whose orbit occupies one of the two foci. \n For each planet, a line joining it to the sun sweeps in equal time equal areas. \n For each planet, the square of its orbital period is directly proportional to the cube of the semi-major axis of the elliptical trajectory of the planet.;4;3;Newton;Copernic;Kepler;Galilee;
L;How do antibodies react against pathogenic elements (antigens) that have entered our body?;The antibody will bind to the antigen to form an immune complex. This Antibody-Antigen interaction will neutralize the antigen but not destroy it. \n\nThe antibody blocks the dangerous parts of the antigen and prevents it from damaging our cells. The formed immune complex will then be destroyed by a macrophage cell.;3;1;Antibodies neutralize antigens;Antibodies destroy antigens;Antibodies neutralize and then destroy antigens;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the stem cells that are the origin of all blood cells (red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets)?;Hematopoietic stem cells are the stem cells responsible for all blood cells (red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets) and the bone marrow or red marrow is the site of the formation of these blood cells. The process of forming blood cells is called hematopoiesis. \n\nHematopoietic stem cells are undifferentiated, pluripotent (able to transform into several different types of cells) and dividing cells (which allows to store a stock of these stem cells). ;4;2;monocytes;hematopoietic stem cells;plasma cells;erythrocytes;
L;According to the ABO blood group system, for what type of blood transfusion is a type O person "universal donor"?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith A group, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith B group, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the A antigen. \nWith AB group, red cells carry both antigens A and B and the white blood cells produce no antibodies. \nWith O group, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nFor a red blood cells transfusion, a person of group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells, not carrying antigen, will not be destroyed by the white blood cells of the recipient. \nA person of group AB will be red blood cells " universal recipient", because its white blood cells did not produce antibodies for either antigen A or B antigen. \n\nFor plasma transfusion, the problem of immunological compatibility is reversed by compared to the red blood cells transfusion since the product to be transfused (the plasma) may bring antibodies directed against the antigens of the red blood cells of the patient. \nThis is why the group AB plasma (no antibody in its plasma) is "universal donor" and the patient of group O is "universal recipient" (no antigen on its red blood cells) and can receive plasmas from all other groups.;2;1;Red blood cells transfusion;Plasma transfusion;;;
L;According to the ABO blood group system, for which type of transfusion is a person of type AB "universal recipient"?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith A group, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith B group, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the A antigen. \nWith AB group, red cells carry both antigens A and B and the white blood cells produce no antibodies. \nWith O group, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nFor a red blood cells transfusion, a person of group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells, not carrying antigen, will not be destroyed by the white blood cells of the recipient. \nA person of group AB will be red blood cells " universal recipient", because its white blood cells did not produce antibodies for either antigen A or B antigen. \n\nFor plasma transfusion, the problem of immunological compatibility is reversed by compared to the red blood cells transfusion since the product to be transfused (the plasma) may bring antibodies directed against the antigens of the red blood cells of the patient. \nThis is why the group AB plasma (no antibody in its plasma) is "universal donor" and the patient of group O is "universal recipient" (no antigen on its red blood cells) and can receive plasmas from all other groups.;2;1;Red blood cells transfusion;Plasma transfusion;;;
L;According to the ABO blood group system, for what type of transfusion is a person of type O "universal recipient"?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith A group, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith B group, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the A antigen. \nWith AB group, red cells carry both antigens A and B and the white blood cells produce no antibodies. \nWith O group, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nFor a red blood cells transfusion, a person of group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells, not carrying antigen, will not be destroyed by the white blood cells of the recipient. \nA person of group AB will be red blood cells " universal recipient", because its white blood cells did not produce antibodies for either antigen A or B antigen. \n\nFor plasma transfusion, the problem of immunological compatibility is reversed by compared to the red blood cells transfusion since the product to be transfused (the plasma) may bring antibodies directed against the antigens of the red blood cells of the patient. \nThis is why the group AB plasma (no antibody in its plasma) is "universal donor" and the patient of group O is "universal recipient" (no antigen on its red blood cells) and can receive plasmas from all other groups.;2;2;Red blood cells transfusion;Plasma transfusion;;;
L;According to the ABO blood group system, for which type of blood transfusion is a person of type AB "universal donor"?;The ABO system allows to classify blood groups according to the antigenic proteins (A or B) present on the surface of the red blood cells which are individual marks of identity: \nWith A group, the red blood cells carry the A antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the B antigen. \nWith B group, the red blood cells carry the B antigen and the white blood cells produce antibodies to the A antigen. \nWith AB group, red cells carry both antigens A and B and the white blood cells produce no antibodies. \nWith O group, red blood cells do not carry any antigen and white blood cells produce antibodies for antigens A and B. \n\nFor a red blood cells transfusion, a person of group O will be "universal donor", because his red blood cells, not carrying antigen, will not be destroyed by the white blood cells of the recipient. \nA person of group AB will be red blood cells " universal recipient", because its white blood cells did not produce antibodies for either antigen A or B antigen. \n\nFor plasma transfusion, the problem of immunological compatibility is reversed by compared to the red blood cells transfusion since the product to be transfused (the plasma) may bring antibodies directed against the antigens of the red blood cells of the patient. \nThis is why the group AB plasma (no antibody in its plasma) is "universal donor" and the patient of group O is "universal recipient" (no antigen on its red blood cells) and can receive plasmas from all other groups.;2;2;Red blood cells transfusion;Plasma transfusion;;;
L;On which domain of mathematics is quantum mechanics based?;The mathematical formalism used by quantum mechanics is based on linear algebra. \n\nThe use of linear algebra as the basic mathematical material of quantum mechanics may seem very mysterious at first glance. We understand this quirk when we know that since the works of the great German mathematician David Hilbert, the functions that describe the waves that we encounter in quantum mechanics are defined by vector spaces, territories of predilection for linear algebra.;4;1;Linear algebra;Differential calculus;Statistical analysis;Optimization calculations;
L;What types of lymphocytes (white blood cells) does the AIDS virus (HIV) infect?;The AIDS virus (HIV) penetrates rapidly into T4 lymphocytes because they have on their membranes the CD4 marker on which the virus binds thanks to its surface proteins: the GP120 proteins. This recognition allows, by fusion of the viral envelope and the cell membrane of the target cell, the entry of the two viral RNA molecules and some enzymatic proteins into the attacked cell. \n\nOnce the cell infected with HIV, the viral genome (RNA) will integrate, after reverse transcription (thanks to reverse transcriptases), within the DNA of the infected cell. The viral DNA integrated into the host cell can remain inactive for many years. It can also express itself (= transcribed in RNA), allowing reproduction (multiplication) of the virus in the form of infectious viral particles, which are then released by budding on the surface of the cell. This phenomenon signifies the death of the infected cell. The infection of new cells ensures the rapid spread of the virus. \n\nThe infection of T4 lymphocytes is very serious because these are the conductor cells of any specific immunity. Without them, there would be no specific immune response.;3;2;B lymphocytes;T4 lymphocytes;T8 lymphocytes;;
L;A first ball is launched horizontally, starting at a certain height H, with a speed V. A second ball is launched from the same height downwards, vertically, with the same initial speed. Which ball will have the greatest speed when touching the ground?;The second ball will hit the ground vertically while the first ball hits the ground at a certain angle, but both balls will have the same speed.;3;3;The first ball;The second ball;Both balls will have the same speed;;
L;The skin contains 2 types of melanin pigments that give it its color. What type of pigment makes the skin dark and protects it from UV rays from the sun?;Melanin is a pigment made by the cells of the skin to which it gives its more or less dark coloring. Its role is among others to help the skin to protect itself UV from the sun. There are actually two types of melanin pigment: brown eumelanin and red (orange-yellow) pheomelanin. Only eumelanin pigments protect against UV rays. \n\nLight skinned people have 2 types of melanime pigment (brown eumelanin pigments and red pheomelanin pigments). The greater the number of brown pigments compared to red pigments, the more the person will have matte skin. \n\nPeople with black skin have mostly brown pigments distributed throughout the epidermis. \n\nAsian origin people also have mostly brown pigments. The skin has yellow reflections simply because these pigments are concentrated at the base of the epidermis. \n\n Conversely other people have only red pigments, it is the people who have red hair and skin very white with freckles because of pigment clusters.;2;1;Eumelanin pigments;Pheomelanin pigments;;;
L;In which part of the human body are the glial cells?;Glial cells are located in the nervous system. They surround neurons and help control the chemical and electrical environment by providing nutrients and eliminating waste. These cells produce, for example, myelin, a substance that serves to isolate nerve fibers (the alteration of myelin production causes, for example, multiple sclerosis) and allows a faster transmission of the electrical signal.;4;1;The nervous system;The stomach;The skin;The testicles;
L;What is the cause of the precession of the equinoxes which is the slow change of direction of the axis of rotation of the earth (one rotation every 25 800 years)?;The precession of the equinoxes is the slow change of direction of the axis of rotation of the Earth (a rotation every 25 800 years approximately). One consequence is the gradual shift of the seasons. In 12,900 years, winter will be equivalent to a position in the Earth's orbit that is currently equivalent to summer. \n\nThis change of direction is caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun on the equatorial bulge of the Earth. These forces tend to bring the excess of mass present at the equator towards the plane of the ecliptic. The Earth being in rotation, these forces can not change the angle between the equator and the ecliptic but cause a displacement of the axis of rotation of the Earth in a direction perpendicular to this axis and the couple. Thus, the axis of the Earth describes the surface of a cone axis perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic, in the manner of the axis of a spinning top resting on a table (which is seen to turn around the vertical).;2;2;Variation of the attraction of the earth by the sun due to the elliptical shape of the orbit of the earth;Change of direction caused by the couple of forces exerted by the moon and the sun on the equatorial bulge of the earth.;;;
L;Why do the winds turn counter-clockwise around a depression in the northern hemisphere and the reverse in the southern hemisphere?;The Coriolis force is an inertial force acting perpendicular to the direction of movement of a moving body in a rotating medium. \n\nWith the earth being rotated, the Coriolis force will act on the winds and cause their deviation. Winds that naturally flow from high to low depressions are deflected to the right in the northern hemisphere and to the left in the southern hemisphere. \n\nThis is why the winds  turn counter-clockwise around a depression in the northern hemisphere and the reverse in the southern hemisphere.;3;1;This is due to the coriolis force which acts on the winds and causes their deviation.;This is due to the earth's magnetic field which is directed from the south Pole to the north Pole.;This is due to the moon attraction whose orbit is offset from the equatorial plane.;;
L ;Where is located the gray matter in the spinal cord? (the gray matter is the substance that contains the cell bodies of neurons).;The cell bodies of neurons (heads of neurons) are located mainly in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) where they are protected by the bones of the skull and spine. They are very numerous in the gray matter, which is central in the spinal cord and peripheral for the brain. \n\nIn the peripheral nervous system, there are also groupings of cell bodies forming the ganglia (eg spinal ganglia located near the spinal cord).;2;1;In the center of the spinal cord;At the spinal cord priphery;;;
L ;Where is located the gray matter in the brain? (the gray matter is the substance that contains the cell bodies of neurons).;The cell bodies of neurons (heads of neurons) are located mainly in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) where they are protected by the bones of the skull and spine. They are very numerous in the gray matter, which is central in the spinal cord and peripheral for the brain. \n\nIn the peripheral nervous system, there are also groupings of cell bodies forming the ganglia (eg spinal ganglia located near the spinal cord).;2;2;In the center of the encephalon;At the encephalon periphery;;;
L;Myelin is the whitish envelope that covers the axons of many neurons. What is the name of the cell that forms this myelin for the axons inside the brain and spinal cord?;The myelin sheath is the whitish, lipid-rich, segmented envelope that covers the axons of many neurons. \n\nThis myelin sheath is formed by glial cells whose cytoplasm wraps around the axon forming very tight turns. The piling of the membranes of these glial cells forms the myelin sheath. \n\nIn the peripheral nervous system (outside the brain and spinal cord), the myelin sheath surrounding an axon is formed of a very large number of Schwann cells, each Schwann cell wrapping completely around the axon. The non-myelin zone between 2 coiled Schwann cells is a Ranvier node. \n\nIn the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), other glial cells called oligodendrocytes can wrap around multiple axons and myelinize them. .;2;1;oligodendrocyte;Schwann cell;;;
L;Myelin is the whitish envelope that covers the axons of many neurons. What is the name of the cell that forms this myelin for the axons outside the brain and spinal cord that make up the nerves?;The myelin sheath is the whitish, lipid-rich, segmented envelope that covers the axons of many neurons. \n\nThis myelin sheath is formed by glial cells whose cytoplasm wraps around the axon forming very tight turns. The piling of the membranes of these glial cells forms the myelin sheath. \n\nIn the peripheral nervous system (outside the brain and spinal cord), the myelin sheath surrounding an axon is formed of a very large number of Schwann cells, each Schwann cell wrapping completely around the axon. The non-myelin zone between 2 coiled Schwann cells is a Ranvier node. \n\nIn the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), other glial cells called oligodendrocytes can wrap around multiple axons and myelinize them. .;2;2;oligodendrocyte;Schwann cell;;;
L;In mathematics, what is the name of the matrix obtained by interchanging its rows and columns?;A transpose matrix is the matrix obtained by interchanging its rows and columns. \n\nA conjugate matrix of a matrix with complex components is the matrix obtained by taking the conjugates of each component.;2;2;conjugate matrix;transpose matrix;;;
L;In a neuron, there are two types of signals or nerve impulses: Graduated potentials and action potentials. Which is the one whose amplitude is variable according to the intensity of the stimulation which initiated it?;In a neuron, there are two types of signals that can be produced by a neuron by changing its membrane potential following stimulation. \n\nGraduated potentials: \n Local changes in membrane potential. These are depolarizations or hyperpolarizations. They cause the appearance of a local electric current whose voltage decreases with the distance. Graduated potentials are short-range signals. Their amplitude is variable, it depends on the intensity of stimulation. \n\nAction potentials: \n These are the elementary signals of the nervous message. Their amplitudes are invariable for a given neuron and they propagate along the axon over long distances without diminishing. An action potential is caused by the depolarization of the membrane above an excitation threshold. It is generated by a sufficient depolarization of the axon trigger zone. The emission frequency of each action potential pulse is a function of the stimulation intensity.;2;1;Graduated potentials;Action potentials;;;
L;In a neuron, there are two types of signals or nerve impulses: Graduated potentials and action potentials. Which is the one whose amplitude is constant and whose frequency is a function of the intensity of the stimulation which initiated it?;In a neuron, there are two types of signals that can be produced by a neuron by changing its membrane potential following stimulation. \n\nGraduated potentials: \n Local changes in membrane potential. These are depolarizations or hyperpolarizations. They cause the appearance of a local electric current whose voltage decreases with the distance. Graduated potentials are short-range signals. Their amplitude is variable, it depends on the intensity of stimulation. \n\nAction potentials: \n These are the elementary signals of the nervous message. Their amplitudes are invariable for a given neuron and they propagate along the axon over long distances without diminishing. An action potential is caused by the depolarization of the membrane above an excitation threshold. It is generated by a sufficient depolarization of the axon trigger zone. The emission frequency of each action potential pulse is a function of the stimulation intensity.;2;2;Graduated potentials;Action potentials;;;
L;Myelin is the whitish envelope that covers the axons of many neurons. Why are areas where the axon is covered with myelin separated by areas without myelin?;An action potential in a neuron is a depolarization of the membrane of its axon caused by a stimulation that propagates along the axon. The succession of the action potentials constitutes the nervous message. \n\nWhen an axon is myelinated, the myelin sheath acting as an insulator, this depolarization can be done only at the level of the myelin-free zones called Ranvier nodes. \n\nThe depolarization will trigger the appearance of another action potential only at the next Ranvier node. This conduction is said to be saltatory because the action potentials "jump" from one node to another, which considerably accelerates their propagation compared to an axon without myelin.;2;2;To reduce the axon thickness due to myelin;Myelin-free zones allow the regeneration of action potentials;;;
L;What do the spinal ganglia located near the spinal cord contain?;Spinal ganglia located near the spinal cord contain the cellular bodies of sensory neurons that carry the sensory information captured by the sensory receptors to their axonal endings found in the gray matter of the spinal cord.;2;2;White blood cells (B and T lymphocytes);Cell bodies of sensory neurons;;;
L;In solid kinematics, what name is given to the three angles which describe the orientation of a solid with respect to a Cartesian reference trihedron?;Euler angles are a set of three angles introduced by Leonhard Euler to describe the orientation of a solid relative to a Cartesian trihedron of reference.;4;2;Gauss angles;Euler angles;Leibniz angles;Riemann;
L;In solid kinematics, what is precession?;Precession is a change in the orientation of the rotational axis of a rotating body. In an appropriate reference frame it can be defined as a change in the first Euler angle, whereas the third Euler angle defines the rotation itself. In other words, if the axis of rotation of a body is itself rotating about a second axis, that body is said to be precessing about the second axis. A motion in which the second Euler angle changes is called nutation.;2;1;Change in the orientation of the rotational axis of a rotating body;periodic change of the axis of rotation of an object around its average position;;;
L;In solid kinematics, what is nutation?;Astronomical nutation is a phenomenon which causes the orientation of the axis of rotation of a spinning astronomical object to vary over time. It is caused by the gravitational forces of other nearby bodies acting upon the spinning object;2;2;Change in the orientation of the rotational axis of a rotating body;periodic change of the axis of rotation of an object around its average position;;;
L;Which molecule is both a neurotransmitter and a hormone?;Adrenaline is both a neurotransmitter and a hormone belonging to the catecholamine family. Adrenaline is secreted in response to a state of stress or physical activity, resulting in an increase in heart rate, increased speed of heart contractions, increased blood pressure, bronchial dilatation and than pupils. It responds to a need for energy, for example to cope with danger. It is often secreted for physical exertion. \n\nAdrenaline is mostly secreted by the central nervous system (it acts as a neuromediator). It is also secreted by the adrenal glands (free adrenaline) in response to direct stimulation by the neurons of the orthosympathetic nervous system.;4;3;Melatonin;FSH;Adrenaline;Parathormone;
L;Which is the hormone of biological rhythms, often referred to as sleep hormone?;Melatonin, often referred to as sleep hormone, is best known as the central hormone regulating biological rhythms by being synthesized especially at night. It is secreted by the epiphysis (or pineal gland), small endocrine gland located in the middle of the brain.;4;1;Melatonin;FSH;Adrenaline;Parathormone;
L;The pancreas secretes two hormones that regulate blood sugar, which is the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. What is the hormone that helps to lower blood sugar?;The pancreas secretes two hormones, insulin and glucagon, to regulate blood sugar, which is the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. \n\nIn case of high blood glucose, insulin will stimulate the formation of hepatic glycogen from glucose, which allows to store the sugar and thus to lower blood sugar. \n\nIn case of low blood sugar, glucagon will stimulate the breakdown of glycogen into glucose, which produces glucose in the blood and increases blood sugar.;2;1;insulin;Glucagon;;;
L;The pancreas secretes two hormones that regulate blood sugar, which is the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. What is the hormone that increases blood sugar?;The pancreas secretes two hormones, insulin and glucagon, to regulate blood sugar, which is the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. \n\nIn case of high blood glucose, insulin will stimulate the formation of hepatic glycogen from glucose, which allows to store the sugar and thus to lower blood sugar. \n\nIn case of low blood sugar, glucagon will stimulate the breakdown of glycogen into glucose, which produces glucose in the blood and increases blood sugar.;2;2;insulin;Glucagon;;;
L;What organ secretes EPO which is a hormone that stimulates the red blood cells production in the marrow?;Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It stimulates erythropoiesis, a mechanism that occurs in the bone marrow and causes the red blood cells production, responsible for transporting oxygen in the blood to tissues and cells of the rest of the body. \n\nWhen the organism works well, erythropoiesis is proportional to our needs: if we lose blood and suffer a fall in the rate of our red blood cells (we speak then of anemia) or if the oxygen supply is insufficient (one speaks then hypoxia, as is the case at altitude), EPO increases and stimulates erythropoiesis to ensure the same amount of oxygen in the body. If the anemia is corrected (for example, if we have a blood transfusion or if we go back down to the plain), the EPO decreases and the erythropoiesis is no longer stimulated.;4;3;Stomach;Small intestine;Kidney;Heart;
L;The kidneys secrete a hormone that stimulates the red blood cells production in the marrow. What is this hormone?;Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It stimulates erythropoiesis, a mechanism that occurs in the bone marrow and causes the red blood cells production, responsible for transporting oxygen in the blood to tissues and cells of the rest of the body. \n\nWhen the organism works well, erythropoiesis is proportional to our needs: if we lose blood and suffer a fall in the rate of our red blood cells (we speak then of anemia) or if the oxygen supply is insufficient (one speaks then hypoxia, as is the case at altitude), EPO increases and stimulates erythropoiesis to ensure the same amount of oxygen in the body. If the anemia is corrected (for example, if we have a blood transfusion or if we go back down to the plain), the EPO decreases and the erythropoiesis is no longer stimulated.\n\nIn 1977 a synthetic EPO was created to treat patients suffering from anemia and renal failure that hinder the production of endogenous EPO. The hormone was then diverted from its drug function and used as a doping product in endurance sports, such as cycling or running. This EPO was used by the American cyclist Lance Armstrong, seven times winner of the Tour de France;3;3;gastrin;secretin;Erythropoietin (EPO);;
L;In cell biology, what are the sex chromosomes called (X chromosomes and Y chromosomes)?;Sex chromosomes (X chromosomes and Y chromosomes) are called gonosomes and nonsexual chromosomes are called autosomes. \n\nThere are 22 pairs of autosomes in humans. The twenty-third pair is the pair of gonosomes (XY in men and XX in women).;4;4;autosomes;lysosomes;polysomes;gonosomes;
L;The quantum systems states are defined in quantum mechanics by vectors of vector spaces called:;The quantum systems states are defined in quantum mechanics by vectors of vector spaces called Hilbert spaces. \n\nHilbert spaces generalize 3-dimensional ordinary space, with complex numbers replacing real numbers to identify components vectors. A Hilbert space can have a finite or infinite number of dimensions.;4;3;Bohr space;Schrodinger space;Hilbert space;Dirac space;
L;In physics, what is the velocity of precession of the magnetic moments of atomic nuclei subjected to a magnetic field?;In the presence of a uniform, constant and sufficiently large external magnetic field, the magnetic moments of the atomic nuclei whose spin is non-zero (like the hydrogen nuclei) start to rotate around the external magnetic field at a given angle. Their motions are analogous to those of spinning tops and they describe cones of revolution around the axis of the magnetic field. \n\nThe appearance of this spinning motion of the spins, under the influence of the external magnetic field, is called precession from Larmor.;4;2;Rabi precession;Larmor precession;Bloch precession;Purcell precession;
L;In physics, spin is an intrinsic property of particles that characterizes the kinetic moment of the particle. The electron has a 1/2 value spin. Do atomic nuclei also have a nonzero spin?;The nucleus of an atom is considered a charged particle rotating around an axis. The rotational movement generates a kinetic moment called the spin. All atomic nuclei have non-zero spin except nuclei whose mass number (A) and atomic number (Z) are even. \n\nThus the nucleus of the hydrogen atom (A = 1 and Z = 1) has a spin of value 1/2, on the other hand the carbon 12 (A = 12 and Z = 6) has a zero spin.;3;3;Yes, all atomic nuclei have a nonzero spin;No, all atomic nuclei have a zero spin;Only some atomic nuclei have a zero spin;;
L;NMR spectroscopy is a spectroscopic method for matter analysis. What does the R letter of NMR mean?;Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is a spectroscopy method applied to particles or sets of atomic particles that have a nonzero nuclear spin. \n\nThis is a phenomenon whereby an atom nucleus absorbs the electromagnetic radiation of a specific frequency in the presence of a strong magnetic field. Isidor Isaac Rabi discovered this phenomenon in 1938. Magnetic resonance was subsequently applied to the detection of light atoms such as hydrogen. \n\nIts applications concern physics, chemistry and medical imaging.;2;2;Radiation;Resonance;;;
L;NMR spectroscopy is a spectroscopic method for matter analysis. What does the M letter of NMR mean?;Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is a spectroscopy method applied to particles or sets of atomic particles that have a nonzero nuclear spin. \n\nThis is a phenomenon whereby an atom nucleus absorbs the electromagnetic radiation of a specific frequency in the presence of a strong magnetic field. Isidor Isaac Rabi discovered this phenomenon in 1938. Magnetic resonance was subsequently applied to the detection of light atoms such as hydrogen. \n\nIts applications concern physics, chemistry and medical imaging.;2;2;Molecular;Magnetic;;;
L;NMR spectroscopy is a spectroscopic method for matter analysis. What does the N letter of NMR mean?;Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is a spectroscopy method applied to particles or sets of atomic particles that have a nonzero nuclear spin. \n\nThis is a phenomenon whereby an atom nucleus absorbs the electromagnetic radiation of a specific frequency in the presence of a strong magnetic field. Isidor Isaac Rabi discovered this phenomenon in 1938. Magnetic resonance was subsequently applied to the detection of light atoms such as hydrogen. \n\nIts applications concern physics, chemistry and medical imaging.;2;1;Nuclear;nanoscale;;;
L;What are the cells forming the wall of the testicular seminiferous tubules that are necessary for the production of spermatozoa?;Sertoli cells are cells within the testicular seminiferous tubules whose main function is the nutrition of future spermatozoa called spermatids. Linked together by zonula occludens (tight junctions), they surround the germ cells. They can only multiply in the first year of life (their counterparts in women are follicular cells).;2;1;Sertoli cells;Leydig cells;;;
L;In the male genital tract, which glands produce the lubricating fluid that facilitate penetration?;Both Cowper's glands are part of the male genitalia. They are the size of a hazelnut. They are located under the prostate on both sides of the urethra. Their role is to produce the cyprine, this translucent and alkaline mucus emitted throughout sexual arousal as well as at the time of ejaculation. \n\nThis secretion has several functions: it lubricates the glans to allow penetration, it lubricates the urethra to facilitate the flow of sperm and it neutralizes the pH of the urethra and vagina so that the sperm are not damaged by the acidity of the medium.;3;1;Cowper glands;Seminal glands;Bartholin's glands;;
L;In the male genital tract, which glands supply nutrients to feed the sperm during ejaculation?;The seminal vesicles are involved in the production of seminal fluid. They contribute by their secretions to 60% of the volume of the seminal liquid with in particular the nutrients (fructose) necessary to feed the spermatozoa during the ejaculation.;2;2;Cowper glands;Seminal glands;;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the process in humans that leads from germinal stem cells to the formation of spermatozoa?;Spermatogenesis is the process that leads in humans, from germline stem cells (spermatogonia) to the formation of spermatozoa. It includes 3 successive phases: \n\n - Multiplication by mitosis which is a conformal reproduction of cells. \n - Meiosis which generates haploid cells (spermatids) which contain only one member of each pair of chromosomes. \n - Cell differentiation called spermiogenesis in which spermatids differentiate into spermatozoa.;3;3;Spermiogenesis;Spermiation;Spermatogenesis;;
L;In cell biology, what is the name of the last phase of spermatogenesis in humans, which is the cellular differentiation in which spermatids differentiate into spermatozoa?;Spermatogenesis is the process that leads in humans, from germline stem cells (spermatogonia) to the formation of spermatozoa. It includes 3 successive phases: \n\n - Multiplication by mitosis which is a conformal reproduction of cells. \n - Meiosis which generates haploid cells (spermatids) which contain only one member of each pair of chromosomes. \n - Cell differentiation called spermiogenesis in which spermatids differentiate into spermatozoa.;3;1;Spermiogenesis;Spermiation;Spermatogenesis;;
L;In which part of the fallopian tubes of the woman is the fertilization (encounter between the spermatozoon and the oocyte)?;The 2 fallopian tubes go from an ovary to the uterine cavity and consist of: \n\n 1 / - The fimbriae: a kind of funnel consisting of ciliated fringes creating a current that facilitates the capture of the gamete female emitted by the ovary during ovulation. \n 2 / - The ampullary: this slightly dilated region of the tube is the place of fertilization (meeting place of male and female gametes). \n 3 / - The isthmus of fallopian tube: narrow portion opening into the uterus. The isthmus is the place of transport of the spermatozoa from the uterus to the ampullary and is the place of transport of the fertilized egg. The egg divides during transport.;3;2;The fimbriae;The ampullary;The isthmus;;
L;In which part of the woman ovary are the follicles that contain the gametes in formation?;The ovaries are surrounded by a capsule, and have an outer cortex and an inner medulla. The follicles each containing a gamete in formation are present in the highly vascularized connective tissue of the cortex. The medulla contains the nerves and the main blood vessels.;2;2;medulla;cortex;;;
L;What is the role of mucus secreted by the cervical glands located in the woman's cervix?;The cervix is the opening of the uterus that protrudes into the vagina and contains the cervical glands, the secretion of which forms cervical mucus. \n\nCervical mucus filters the spermatozoa, preventing their penetration into the cervix uterus except at the time of ovulation where its consistency is less viscous. \n\nThe cervix undergoes significant dilation to let out the baby during delivery.;2;1;Prevent sperm from entering the uterus except at the time of ovulation.;Provide nutrients to sperm that enter the uterus.;;;
L;What is the name of the uterus outer lining whose contractions occur during childbirth?;The uterine wall consists of the following two layers: \n\n 1 / - An external myometrium: muscle wall whose contractions occur during childbirth. \n 2 / - An internal endometrium allowing the implantation of the young embryo in case fertilization. \n\nThe endometrium consists of 2 layers: \n\n A functional layer that undergoes cyclic changes and desquamates (eliminates) every 28 days or so (menstruation) but is maintained in case of fertilization . \n A basal layer thinner and deeper;2;1;The myometer;The endometrium;;;
L;What is the name of the uterus inner lining that allows implantation of the young embryo in case of fertilization?;The uterine wall consists of the following two layers: \n\n 1 / - An external myometrium: muscle wall whose contractions occur during childbirth. \n 2 / - An internal endometrium allowing the implantation of the young embryo in case fertilization. \n\nThe endometrium consists of 2 layers: \n\n A functional layer that undergoes cyclic changes and desquamates (eliminates) every 28 days or so (menstruation) but is maintained in case of fertilization . \n A basal layer thinner and deeper;2;2;The myometer;The endometrium;;;
L;In quantum physics, it is possible to have a complete knowledge of a composite system and have no knowledge of the particles that compose it. What is this phenomenon called?;Consider a composite quantum system formed by two particles. It is possible, in some cases, to have a complete knowledge of the composite system (we know the quantum state of the composite quantum system) without having any knowledge of the quantum state of the two particles that compose it. This phenomenon is called quantum entanglement. \n\nWhen this occurs, the composite quantum system is in a so-called "entangled" state, the two particles that compose it have quantum states depending on each other whatever the distance that separates them. Thus, in the "entangled" state of the composite quantum system, there are correlations between the observed physical properties of these distinct particles: this state seems to contradict the locality principle. Thus, two entangled objects O1 and O2 are not independent even separated by a very large distance, and we must consider {O1 + O2} as a single system.;3;3;Uncertainty principle;Quantum superposition;Quantum entanglement;;
L;In the female genital tract, what are the glands, located at the entrance of the vagina, that secrete a lubricating mucus during intercourse?;The external genitals of the woman are made of on each side by two folds of skin: \n\n 1/ - large external lips \n 2/ - small internal lips which join to cover the clitoris formed of erectile bodies. \n\nThe 2 Bartholin glands (or vulvovaginal glands) open to the inside of the labia minora and secrete a lubricating mucus during intercourse.;3;3;Cowper glands;Seminal glands;Bartholin's glands;;
L;In women, is there separation between the genital tract and the urinary tract.;Unlike men, the genital and urinary tract are completely separated in women. These two tracts end at the level of the vulva by the following two orifices: \n\n 1 / - The urinary opening (or meatus) or urethral at the front. \n 2 / - The genital opening (or vaginal) at the back partly closed by the hymen (very vascularized septum that will be broken during the first sexual intercourse).;2;1;Yes;No;;;
L ;What are the names of the stem cells that are responsible for the formation of oocytes which will become eggs after fertilization with a spermatozoon?;The stem cells that are responsible for the formation of oocytes are ovogonies. In the fetus ovary, there is multiplication by cell division of stem cells to form a stock of several million oocyte cells which will remain blocked until puberty. \n\nAfter puberty, a small number these oocytes (a few hundred) are activated and undergo significant growth to form potentially fecundable oocytes. Every month, an oocyte is expelled from the ovary and if it encounters a spermatozoon fertilization occurs. The oocyte and sperm then form an egg that will become an embryo. \n\nThis monthly ovulation process ends at menopause, around the age of 50. \n\nUnlike women, spermatogenesis , which is the process of sperm formation by men, is a continuous process that begins at puberty under the effect of testosterone (male sex hormone) and continues until death;3;3;follicles;ovaries;oogonia;;
L;What is the name of an oocyte (female sexual cell) surrounded by its envelope of nourishing cells?;An ovarian follicle is made up of an oocyte (female gamete) and its envelope of follicular cells (feeder cells of the oocyte). \n\nFolliculogenesis, which takes place in the woman ovary, is the process of maturation of the primordial follicle in mature follicle. It is the succession of different stages of development of the ovarian follicles, from the primordial follicle stage to the mature follicle stage ready to expel out of the ovary its oocyte to be fertilized by a spermatozoon.;4;1;follicle;oogonia;ovarie;ovum;
L;In the woman ovary, a follicle is made up of an oocyte (female gamete) surrounded by an envelope of feeder cells. What happens to the mature follicle after expelling its oocyte from the ovary to be fertilized by a spermatozoon?;Ovulation in women occurs every 28 days. It occurs in the middle of the 28-day ovarian cycle and is repeated until there is fertilization. \n\nThe ovarian cycle has a follicular phase before ovulation and a luteal phase after ovulation. \n\nThe follicular phase corresponds to the rapid growth of the follicles containing the oocytes. \n\nDuring ovulation, the mature follicle releases its oocyte which is expelled from the ovary. \n\nIn the luteal phase, the broken follicle that has released its oocyte turns into a corpus luteum that secretes progesterone. The effect of this hormone is to maintain in the uterus the mucosa that must host the eventual embryo. In the absence of fertilization, the corpus luteum regresses and disappears completely and the mucous membrane to receive the embryo is eliminated (menstruation). On the other hand, if there is fertilization, the corpus luteum is maintained, it continues to secrete the progesterone and the uterus lining that hosts the embryo is preserved.;3;2;corpus blancus;corpus luteum;corpus rubra;;
L;Which hormones are responsible for the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics in women (breasts, hairs, hips) during puberty?;At puberty, estrogen, secreted by growing follicles, allows the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics (hair growth, breast development) and bone growth (anabolic effects of estrogen). \n\nIn the course of reproductive life, estrogens are also responsible for sexual activity (libido) and determine the uterus and cervical mucus properties which are characteristic of the follicular phase of the ovarian cycle.;3;1;estrogen;progesterone;testosterone;;
L;Which of these mammals has menstrual periods once every 28 days as in women?;Female reproductive organs work in a repetitive cycle. During each cycle, which lasts an average of 4 weeks, the woman's uterus changes under the influence of hormones. Its inner wall (the endometrium) thickens, glands are activated and it fills with liquid to allow the installation of a possible pregnancy. If this does not occur, the thickened inner uterus surface is detached and flows, mixed with blood, to the outside of the body. A new cycle begins then. These flows, which correspond to the transition to a new cycle, are called menstruation. \n\nThis phenomenon is not found in all mammals. In fact, the only animal species having menstruation are great apes (chimpanzee, orangutan ...), marsupials, lemurs, elephants and bats. For the others, the mucous membranes are not evacuated but are resorbed naturally.;3;1;Elephante;Female Rat;Female dog;;
L;Do all mammals have menstrual periods once every 28 days as in women?;Female reproductive organs work in a repetitive cycle. During each cycle, which lasts an average of 4 weeks, the woman's uterus changes under the influence of hormones. Its inner wall (the endometrium) thickens, glands are activated and it fills with liquid to allow the installation of a possible pregnancy. If this does not occur, the thickened inner uterus surface is detached and flows, mixed with blood, to the outside of the body. A new cycle begins then. These flows, which correspond to the transition to a new cycle, are called menstruation. \n\nThis phenomenon is not found in all mammals. In fact, the only animal species having menstruation are great apes (chimpanzee, orangutan ...), marsupials, lemurs, elephants and bats. For the others, the mucous membranes are not evacuated but are resorbed naturally.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;On which organs do the gonadotropic hormones secreted by the adenohypophysis act?;Gonadotropic hormones or gonadotropins (FSH and LH) are hormones that stimulate the gonads activity (ovaries and testicles). These hormones are fundamental for fertility in both men and women. \n\nIn men, FSH indirectly stimulates spermatogenesis by activating Sertoli cells and LH stimulates testosterone production by Leydig cells. \n\nIn women, FSH stimulates the growth and final maturation of the follicle and LH triggers ovulation and transformation of the ruptured follicle into a Corpus luteum.;4;3;thyroid gland;liver;ovaries and testicles;mammary glands;
L;In organic chemistry, what is the name of a reaction that involves cutting a large molecule into smaller molecules?;Water has a active role in many chemical reactions. \n\nIt allows, for example, hydrolysis reactions which are reactions of cleavage of covalent bonds of a larger molecule into smaller molecules. \n\nAt the opposite during the synthesis of large molecules (macromolecules), covalent bonds with H2O release are established.;2;2;Oxidation reaction;Hydrolysis reaction;;;
L;What is the most abundant mineral salt in the human body?;Calcium phosphate is the most abundant mineral salt in the human body. It is present in the bones and in the teeth of which it contributes to the solidity.;4;4;sodium chloride;magnesium carbonate;potassium chloride;calcium phosphate;
L;What is the main extracellular cation of the human body?;The main extracellular cation of the body is the Na+ ion (sodium ion). \n\nThe main intracellular cation is the K+ ion (potassium ion).;2;1;sodium ion;potassium ion;;;
L;What is the main intracellular cation of the human body?;The main extracellular cation of the body is the Na+ ion (sodium ion). \n\nThe main intracellular cation is the K+ ion (potassium ion).;2;2;sodium ion;potassium ion;;;
L;What are the organic molecules produced by chlorophyll plants?;Carbohydrates result from the photosynthetic activity of chlorophyllous plants, which takes place in the chloroplasts of leaf cells. \n\nThe overall reaction of photosynthesis is: \n 6 CO2 + 6 H2O -" C6H12O6  (glucose ) + 6 O2 \n\nThe opposite reaction is that of respiration in the cells.;3;1;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;;
L;Which of these two types of lipids has a molecule with a polar part and a nonpolar part?;Phospholipids are formed as triglycerides of glycerol but they have two chains of fatty acids instead of three and they carry a phosphate group. \n\nTriglycerides are apolar (or neutral) fats while phospholipids have a polar part. \n\nPhospholipids have a non-polar tail (hydrocarbon portion) and a polar head (phosphate group) that attracts water. This double property of phospholipids plays a fundamental role in the constitution of cell membranes.;2;1;phospholipids;triglycerides;;;
L;Does the frequency of a light wave change when it goes from one material medium to another (going from air to water, for example)?;The frequency of the light wave is defined by the source and is not changed when light goes from one medium to another. \n\nThis is the speed of light and its wavelength that changes with the refractive index of the medium.;2;2;Yes;No;;;
L;What family of organic molecules does cholesterol belong to?;Cholesterol is a steroid that is part of the lipid family such as triglycerides and phospholipids. \n\nThe structure of steroids differs from that of triglycerides and phospholipids because their carbon atoms combine to form four rings. \n\n Cholesterol is an example of a steroid that plays a very important role because it is part of the membranes of animal cells and is the precursor in the synthesis of all steroid hormones, such as testosterone, estradiol and progesterone. .;3;2;carbohydrates;lipids;proteins;;
L;What is the simplest amino acid?;The 20 amino acids differ in their R radical carried by their central carbon. \n\nThe central carbon of any amino acid carries four elements: R, COOH (acidic group), NH2 (amino group) and H. \n\nThe simplest amino acid is glycine whose radical is a simple hydrogen atom.;4;2;aspartic acid;wistaria;lysine;cysteine;
L;In organic chemistry, what kind of bond links the amino acids in a protein?;A peptide bond is a covalent bond that links two amino acids in a protein. It links the carbon of the acid function to the nitrogen of the amine function. \n\nDuring the formation of this bond (synthesis reaction), a molecule of water is released. \n\nFor the cutting of this bond (hydrolysis reaction which occurs for example during the digestion of proteins), a molecule of water is required.;2;2;nucleic bond;peptide bond;;;
L;DNA is a double-stranded macromolecule, that is, formed by 2 nucleotide chains. Which type of bond links 2 consecutive nucleotides of the same chain?;DNA is a double-stranded macromolecule, that is, formed by 2 nucleotide chains. In the same chain, the nucleotides are linked to each other by covalent bonds. Each covalent bond links a sugar of one nucleotide with the phosphate group of the next nucleotide of the chain. \n\nThe two chains are linked together by hydrogen bonds which link the complementary nitrogen bases of the nucleotides. The union of nitrogenous bases is carried out according to the following complementarity: Adenine-Thymine and Guanine-Cytosine. The two chains wind around each other forming a double helix.;2;1;covalent bond;hydrogen bond;;;
L;What kind of bond links the two nucleotide chains that make up a DNA molecule?;DNA is a double-stranded macromolecule, that is, formed by 2 nucleotide chains. In the same chain, the nucleotides are linked to each other by covalent bonds. Each covalent bond links a sugar of one nucleotide with the phosphate group of the next nucleotide of the chain. \n\nThe two chains are linked together by hydrogen bonds which link the complementary nitrogen bases of the nucleotides. The union of nitrogenous bases is carried out according to the following complementarity: Adenine-Thymine and Guanine-Cytosine. The two chains wind around each other forming a double helix.;2;2;covalent bond;hydrogen bond;;;
L;According to the classical theory of radiation, the total energy emitted by a black body should be infinite. How was this phenomenon qualified by physicists?;In physics, a black body refers to an ideal object that perfectly absorbs all electromagnetic energy (all light whatever its wavelength) that it receives. This absorption is reflected by a thermal agitation which causes the emission of a thermal radiation, called radiation of the black body. \n\nAccording to the classical theory of radiation, by applying the theorem of equipartition of the energy, the The energy emitted per unit area of ??a blackbody must be proportional to its temperature and the square of the frequency of the radiation. Since there is no limit to the number of frequencies that can exist inside the black body, this theory leads to infinite total energy, which is of course contrary to reality. This phenomenon was called "ultraviolet catastrophe" by the Austrian physicist Paul Ehrenfest. \n\nIn 1900, Max Planck, a German physicist, tries to find in a totally empirical way the mathematical formula for understanding the radiation of the black body. He then finds that everything happens as if the exchanges between the matter and the energy, in the form of electromagnetic radiation, take place in the form of energy packets of value E = hf, f being the frequency and h the coefficient of proportionality, found empirically, between the packet or quanta of energy and the frequency of the radiation. The h coefficient is called the "Planck constant". \n\nWith this hypothesis, the minimum threshold of energy emission becomes very large when the frequencies become very high, which limits the energy emitted at these frequencies. So there is no more "ultraviolet catastrophe". \n\nMax Planck, by explaining the radiation of the black body, has opened a door to a new physics, called quantum physics. He will get, for this discovery, the Nobel Prize for physics in 1918.;3;3;ultraviolet riddle;ultraviolet mystery;ultraviolet catastrophe;;
L;According to the classical theory of radiation, the total energy emitted by a black body should be infinite, which is impossible. To solve this problem, which physicist manages to establish a model of emission of the black body by discovering the quantification of the electromagnetic interactions?;In physics, a black body refers to an ideal object that perfectly absorbs all electromagnetic energy (all light whatever its wavelength) that it receives. This absorption is reflected by a thermal agitation which causes the emission of a thermal radiation, called radiation of the black body. \n\nAccording to the classical theory of radiation, by applying the theorem of equipartition of the energy, the The energy emitted per unit area of ??a blackbody must be proportional to its temperature and the square of the frequency of the radiation. Since there is no limit to the number of frequencies that can exist inside the black body, this theory leads to infinite total energy, which is of course contrary to reality. This phenomenon was called "ultraviolet catastrophe" by the Austrian physicist Paul Ehrenfest. \n\nIn 1900, Max Planck, a German physicist, tries to find in a totally empirical way the mathematical formula for understanding the radiation of the black body. He then finds that everything happens as if the exchanges between the matter and the energy, in the form of electromagnetic radiation, take place in the form of energy packets of value E = hf, f being the frequency and h the coefficient of proportionality, found empirically, between the packet or quanta of energy and the frequency of the radiation. The h coefficient is called the "Planck constant". \n\nWith this hypothesis, the minimum threshold of energy emission becomes very large when the frequencies become very high, which limits the energy emitted at these frequencies. So there is no more "ultraviolet catastrophe". \n\nMax Planck, by explaining the radiation of the black body, has opened a door to a new physics, called quantum physics. He will get, for this discovery, the Nobel Prize for physics in 1918.;4;3;Wien;Rayleigh;Planck;Kirchhoff;
L;What is the name of the diagram giving a representation of the space-time used in relativity constricted?;The Minkowski diagram, also known as a spacetime diagram, was developed in 1908 by Hermann Minkowski and provides an illustration of the properties of space and time in the special theory of relativity. It allows a qualitative understanding of the corresponding phenomena like time dilation and length contraction without mathematical equations.;3;2;Feynman diagram;Minkowski diagram;Lorentz diagram;;
L;Do all contraceptive pills block ovulation in women?;There are 2 types of contraceptive pills: \n\nThe combined oral contraceptive pills that contain 2 synthetic hormones: A synthetic estrogen (ethinyl estradiol) and a progestin, a synthetic hormone that works similar to progesterone. \nProgestogen pills which contain only progestin. \n\nSynthetic estrogen, provided at low and constant rate by the pill, inhibits the stimulation of the ovaries by the brain (pituitary under control of the hypothalamus). The ovary then no longer produces its own estrogen (estradiol), the level of which remains low and constant, which prevents the peak of FSH (hormone secreted by the pituitary gland) that triggers ovulation. \n\nThe progestin goes thicken the cervical mucus to stop sperm ascension and will act on the uterine lining by preventing the possible implantation of an embryo.;3;2;Yes, all pills block ovulation;No, only combined oral contraceptive pills block ovulation;No, only progestin-only pills block ovulation;;
L;What type of organic molecule belonging to the lipid family has 4 carbon atom rings?;The structure of steroids differs from that of triglycerides and phospholipids because their carbon atoms combine to form four rings. \n\nCholesterol is an example of a steroid that plays a very important role because it goes into the composition of the membranes of animal cells and it is the precursor in the synthesis of all steroid hormones, such as testosterone, estradiol and progesterone;3;1;steroids;phospholipids;triglycerides;;